1. Eur J Pharmacol. 2023 Dec 23:176301. doi: 10.1016/j.ejphar.2023.176301. Online
 ahead of print.

Effects of different chronic restraint stress periods on anxiety- and 
depression-like behaviors and tryptophan-kynurenine metabolism along the 
brain-gut axis in C57BL/6N mice.

Ye F(1), Dong MC(1), Xu CX(1), Jiang N(1), Chang Q(1), Liu XM(2), Pan RL(3).

Author information:
(1)Institute of Medicinal Plant Development, Chinese Academy of Medical Sciences 
and Peking Union Medical College, Beijing, 100193, China.
(2)Institute of Drug Discovery Technology, Ningbo University, No. 818, Feng Hua 
Road, Jiangbei District, Ningbo, 315000, China. Electronic address: 
liuxinmin@hotmail.com.
(3)Institute of Medicinal Plant Development, Chinese Academy of Medical Sciences 
and Peking Union Medical College, Beijing, 100193, China. Electronic address: 
rlpan@implad.ac.cn.

Chronic restraint stress (CRS) is a widely used stimulus to induce anxiety- and 
depression-like behaviors, linked to alterations in tryptophan-kynurenine 
(TRP-KYN) metabolism in animals. This study assessed the effects of different 
CRS periods on anxiety- or depression-like behaviors and TRP-KYN metabolism 
along brain-gut axis in C57BL/6N mice. Results showed that one-week CRS 
decreased the open arm entries of mice in elevated plus maze and delayed latency 
of feeding in novelty suppressed feeding test. Four-week CRS reduced sucrose 
preference, increases forced swimming immobility time, and also induced 
anxiety-like behaviors of mice. UPLC-MS/MS analysis revealed decreased levels of 
the neurotoxic 3-hydroxykynurenine (3-HK) and quinolinic acid (QA), and an 
increase in the neuroprotective kynurenic acid (KA) in the hippocampus of 
one-week CRS mice; meanwhile, four-week CRS mice displayed a reduction in KA and 
increases in 3-HK and QA. In the colon, both one-week and four-week CRS mice 
exhibited significant reductions in 3-HK and QA, with a marked increase of KA 
exclusively in four-week CRS mice. Briefly, one-week CRS only induced 
anxiety-like behaviors with hippocampal neuroprotection in TRP-KYN metabolism, 
whereas four-week CRS caused anxiety- and depression-like behaviors with 
neurotoxicity. In the colon, during both CRS periods, KYN was metabolized in the 
direction of NAD+ production. However, four-week CRS triggered intestinal 
inflammation risk with increased KA. Summarily, slightly short-term stress has 
beneficial effects on mice, while prolonged chronic stress can lead to 
pathological changes. This study offers valuable insights into stress-induced 
emotional disturbances.

Copyright © 2023. Published by Elsevier B.V.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ejphar.2023.176301
PMID: 38145646

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
declared no potential conﬂicts of interest with respect to the research, 
author-ship, and/or publication of this article.


2. Behav Brain Res. 2023 Dec 21;460:114829. doi: 10.1016/j.bbr.2023.114829.
Online  ahead of print.

Differential effect of chronic mild stress on anxiety and depressive-like 
behaviors in three strains of male and female laboratory mice.

Medina-Saldivar C(1), Cruz-Visalaya S(1), Zevallos-Arias A(1), Pardo GVE(2), 
Pacheco-Otálora LF(1).

Author information:
(1)Laboratorio de Investigación en Neurociencia, CientificoInstituto Científico, 
Universidad Andina del Cusco, Cuzco, Peru.
(2)Laboratorio de Investigación en Neurociencia, CientificoInstituto Científico, 
Universidad Andina del Cusco, Cuzco, Peru. Electronic address: 
grace.pardo@gmail.com.

Major depressive disorder is the most common psychiatric disorder worldwide. To 
understand mechanisms and search for new approaches to treating depression, 
animal models are crucial. Chronic mild stress (CMS) is the most used animal 
model of depression. Although CMS is considered a robust model of depression, 
conflicting results have been reported for emotion-related behaviors, which the 
intrinsic characteristics of each rodent strain could explain. To further shed 
light on the impact of genetic background on the relevant parameters commonly 
addressed in depression, we examined the effect of 4-weeks CMS on anxiety and 
depression-related behaviors and body weight gain in three strain mice (BALB/c, 
C57BL/6, and CD1) of both sexes. CMS reduced body weight gain in C57BL/6NCrl and 
CD1 male mice. C57BL/6 animals exhibited a more pronounced anxious-like behavior 
than CD1 and BALB/c mice in the light-dark box (LDB) and the elevated plus maze 
(EPM) tests, whereas BALB/c animals exhibited the more robust depressive-like 
phenotype in the splash test (ST), tail suspension test (TST) and 
forced-swimming test (FST). Under CMS, exposure did not affect anxiety-related 
behaviors in any strain but induced depression-like behaviors 
strain-dependently. CMS C57BL/6 and CD1 mice of both sexes showed 
depression-like behaviors, and CMS BALB/c male mice exhibited reduced depressive 
behaviors in the FST. These results suggest a differential effect of stress, 
with the C57BL/6 strain being more vulnerable to stress than the CD1 and BALB/c 
strain mice. Furthermore, our findings emphasize the need for researchers to 
consider mouse strains and behavioral tests in their CMS experimental designs.

Copyright © 2023. Published by Elsevier B.V.

DOI: 10.1016/j.bbr.2023.114829
PMID: 38141784


3. Front Endocrinol (Lausanne). 2023 Dec 5;14:1288282. doi: 
10.3389/fendo.2023.1288282. eCollection 2023.

Musclin prevents depression-like behavior in male mice by activating urocortin 2 
signaling in the hypothalamus.

Ataka K(1)(2), Asakawa A(2), Iwai H(3), Kato I(1).

Author information:
(1)Laboratory of Medical Biochemistry, Kobe Pharmaceutical University, Kobe, 
Japan.
(2)Department of Psychosomatic Internal Medicine, Kagoshima University Graduate 
School of Medical and Dental Sciences, Kagoshima, Japan.
(3)Department of Oral Anatomy and Cell Biology, Kagoshima University Graduate 
School of Medical and Dental Sciences, Kagoshima, Japan.

INTRODUCTION: Physical activity is recommended as an alternative treatment for 
depression. Myokines, which are secreted from skeletal muscles during physical 
activity, play an important role in the skeletal muscle-brain axis. Musclin, a 
newly discovered myokine, exerts physical endurance, however, the effects of 
musclin on emotional behaviors, such as depression, have not been evaluated. 
This study aimed to access the anti-depressive effect of musclin and clarify the 
connection between depression-like behavior and hypothalamic neuropeptides in 
mice.
METHODS: We measured the immobility time in the forced swim (FS) test, the time 
spent in open arm in the elevated-plus maze (EPM) test, the mRNA levels of 
hypothalamic neuropeptides, and enumerated the c-Fos-positive cells in the 
paraventricular nucleus (PVN), arcuate nucleus (ARC), and nucleus tractus 
solitarii (NTS) in mice with the intraperitoneal (i.p.) administration of 
musclin. Next, we evaluated the effects of a selective corticotropin-releasing 
factor (CRF) type 1 receptor antagonist, selective CRF type 2 receptor 
antagonist, melanocortin receptor (MCR) agonist, and selective melanocortin 4 
receptor (MC4R) agonist on changes in behaviors induced by musclin. Finally we 
evaluated the antidepressant effect of musclin using mice exposed to repeated 
water immersion (WI) stress.
RESULTS: We found that the i.p. and i.c.v. administration of musclin decreased 
the immobility time and relative time in the open arms (open %) in mice and 
increased urocortin 2 (Ucn 2) levels but decreased proopiomelanocortin levels in 
the hypothalamus. The numbers of c-Fos-positive cells were increased in the PVN 
and NTS but decreased in the ARC of mice with i.p. administration of musclin. 
The c-Fos-positive cells in the PVN were also found to be Ucn 2-positive. The 
antidepressant and anxiogenic effects of musclin were blocked by central 
administration of a CRF type 2 receptor antagonist and a melanocortin 4 receptor 
agonist, respectively. Peripheral administration of musclin also prevented 
depression-like behavior and the decrease in levels of hypothalamic Ucn 2 
induced by repeated WI stress.
DISCUSSION: These data identify the antidepressant effects of musclin through 
the activation of central Ucn 2 signaling and suggest that musclin and Ucn 2 can 
be new therapeutic targets and endogenous peptides mediating the muscle-brain 
axis.

Copyright © 2023 Ataka, Asakawa, Iwai and Kato.

DOI: 10.3389/fendo.2023.1288282
PMCID: PMC10728487
PMID: 38116320 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that the research was 
conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial relationships that could 
be construed as a potential conflict of interest.


4. Eur J Pharm Biopharm. 2024 Jan;194:118-130. doi: 10.1016/j.ejpb.2023.12.002. 
Epub 2023 Dec 11.

Intranasal administration of sertraline ensures sustained brain delivery and 
antidepressant effect in a mouse model of depression.

Silva S(1), Fonseca C(2), Bicker J(1), Falcão A(1), Fortuna A(3).

Author information:
(1)Laboratory of Pharmacology, Faculty of Pharmacy, University of Coimbra, 
Coimbra, Portugal; Coimbra Institute for Biomedical Imaging and Translational 
Research (CIBIT), University of Coimbra, Coimbra, Portugal.
(2)Laboratory of Pharmacology, Faculty of Pharmacy, University of Coimbra, 
Coimbra, Portugal; Coimbra Institute for Biomedical Imaging and Translational 
Research (CIBIT), University of Coimbra, Coimbra, Portugal; Department of 
Pharmacology, Toxicology and Therapeutic Chemistry, Faculty of Pharmacy and Food 
Science, Universitat de Barcelona, Barcelona, Spain; Institute of Neurosciences, 
Universitat de Barcelona, Barcelona, Spain.
(3)Laboratory of Pharmacology, Faculty of Pharmacy, University of Coimbra, 
Coimbra, Portugal; Coimbra Institute for Biomedical Imaging and Translational 
Research (CIBIT), University of Coimbra, Coimbra, Portugal. Electronic address: 
afortuna@ff.uc.pt.

The pursuit of more potent and efficacious antidepressant therapies is of utmost 
significance. Herein, the intranasal (IN) route was investigated for sertraline 
brain delivery, encompassing a comparative pharmacokinetic study after a 
single-dose administration to mice by IN, intravenous (IV) (4.87 mg/kg) and oral 
(10 mg/kg) routes, and an efficacy/toxicity study to explore the therapeutic 
effect in mice subjected to the unpredictable chronic mild stress (UCMS) 
protocol. Neurotransmitters and melatonin were quantified in prefrontal cortex 
and plasma, respectively. A different drug biodistribution behavior was unveiled 
for a CNS-acting drug administered by means of the IN route. For the first time, 
IN administration of sertraline exhibited heightened systemic exposure 
(bioavailability = 166 %), and a sustained drug release into the brain, in 
opposition to IV and oral routes, avoiding drug fluctuation. The lower lung 
exposition (given by normalized area under the curve) observed after IN 
instillation envisions the reduction of sertraline pulmonary side effects and 
similarly other peripheral side effects. IN sertraline treatment displayed 
significant efficacy in ameliorating anhedonia after one week of administration 
while the 14-day IN treatment regimen translated into decreased immobility time 
and increased swimming time in the forced swimming test, suggesting an 
improvement of the depressive-like behavior displayed by the animal 
depressive-model. Remarkably, these effects were absent with oral sertraline, 
despite the higher used dose. Noteworthy neurotransmitter alterations were 
observed, with IN sertraline markedly reducing adrenaline in the prefrontal 
cortex, while serotonin and melatonin increased following both administration 
routes. With its sustained brain delivery and serotonin- and melatonin-enhancing 
potential, the innovative strategy of IN sertraline holds the potential not only 
to effectively address depressive symptoms but also to mitigate challenges 
inherent to classic treatments.

Copyright © 2023 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ejpb.2023.12.002
PMID: 38092320 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of Competing Interest The authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper.


5. Front Pharmacol. 2023 Nov 1;14:1274121. doi: 10.3389/fphar.2023.1274121. 
eCollection 2023.

Si-Ni-San alleviates early life stress-induced depression-like behaviors in 
adolescence via modulating Rac1 activity and associated spine plasticity in the 
nucleus accumbens.

Ye L(1), Wu J(2), Liu Z(1), Deng D(1), Bai S(1), Yang L(1), Xuan Y(1), Liu Z(1), 
Shi Y(2), Liu Z(1), Zhang R(1), Zhao J(1).

Author information:
(1)Guangdong Provincial Key Laboratory of Translational Cancer Research of 
Chinese Medicines, Joint International Research Laboratory of Translational 
Cancer Research of Chinese Medicines, International Institute for Translational 
Chinese Medicine, School of Pharmaceutical Sciences, Guangzhou University of 
Chinese Medicine, Guangzhou, China.
(2)School of Fundamental Medical Science, Guangzhou University of Chinese 
Medicine, Guangzhou, China.

Background: Early life stress (ELS) is a major risk factor for depression in 
adolescents. The nucleus accumbens (NAc) is a key center of the reward system, 
and spine remodeling in the NAc contributes to the development of depression. 
The Si-Ni-San formula (SNS) is a fundamental prescription for treating 
depression in traditional Chinese medicine. However, little is known about the 
effects of SNS on behavioral abnormalities and spine plasticity in the NAc 
induced by ELS. Purpose: This study aimed to investigate the therapeutic effect 
and the modulatory mechanism of SNS on abnormal behaviors and spine plasticity 
in the NAc caused by ELS. Methods: We utilized a model of ELS that involved 
maternal separation with early weaning to explore the protective effects of SNS 
on adolescent depression. Depressive-like behaviors were evaluated by the 
sucrose preference test, the tail suspension test, and the forced swimming test; 
anxiety-like behaviors were monitored by the open field test and the elevated 
plus maze. A laser scanning confocal microscope was used to analyze dendritic 
spine remodeling in the NAc. The activity of Rac1 was detected by pull-down and 
Western blot tests. Viral-mediated gene transfer of Rac1 was used to investigate 
its role in ELS-induced depression-like behaviors in adolescence. Results: ELS 
induced depression-like behaviors but not anxiety-like behaviors in adolescent 
mice, accompanied by an increase in stubby spine density, a decrease in mushroom 
spine density, and decreased Rac1 activity in the NAc. Overexpression of 
constitutively active Rac1 in the NAc reversed depression-related behaviors, 
leading to a decrease in stubby spine density and an increase in mushroom spine 
density. Moreover, SNS attenuated depression-like behavior in adolescent mice 
and counteracted the spine abnormalities in the NAc induced by ELS. 
Additionally, SNS increased NAc Rac1 activity, and the inhibition of Rac1 
activity weakened the antidepressant effect of SNS. Conclusion: These results 
suggest that SNS may exert its antidepressant effects by modulating Rac1 
activity and associated spine plasticity in the NAc.

Copyright © 2023 Ye, Wu, Liu, Deng, Bai, Yang, Xuan, Liu, Shi, Liu, Zhang and 
Zhao.

DOI: 10.3389/fphar.2023.1274121
PMCID: PMC10646421
PMID: 38026979

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that the research was 
conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial relationships that could 
be construed as a potential conflict of interest.


6. J Med Food. 2023 Dec;26(12):890-901. doi: 10.1089/jmf.2023.K.0050. Epub 2023
Nov  21.

Corydalis yanhusuo Polysaccharides Ameliorate Chronic Stress-Induced Depression 
in Mice through Gut Microbiota-Derived Short-Chain Fatty Acid Activation of 
5-Hydroxytryptamine Signaling.

Fang Y(1), Li Y(2), Liao X(3), Deng J(4), Wang Q(1), Liang J(1), Yan B(5).

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology, Hospital of Chengdu University of Traditional 
Chinese Medicine, Chengdu, China.
(2)Department of TCM & Western Medicine, Chengdu University of Traditional 
Chinese Medicine/Affiliated Reproductive Maternity and Child Hospital, Chengdu, 
China.
(3)Department of Information, Hospital of Chengdu University of TCM, Chengdu, 
China.
(4)Affiliated Hospital of Chengdu University of Traditional Chinese Medicine, 
Chengdu, China.
(5)Department of GCP, Hospital of Chengdu University of Traditional Chinese 
Medicine, Chengdu, China.

Depression, a prevalent psychiatric disorder, presents a serious health risk to 
humans. Increasing evidence suggested that the gut microbiota and the 
5-hydroxytryptamine (5-HT) pathway both contribute significantly to depression. 
This research aimed to investigate how Corydalis yanhusuo polysaccharides (CYP) 
could potentially alleviate depression induced by chronic unpredictable mild 
stress in mice, as well as its underlying mechanism. The sucrose preference 
test, tail suspension test, and forced swimming test were employed to evaluate 
the behavior of mice. Enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay and PCR techniques were 
utilized to measure depression-related factors (dopamine [DA], 5-HT, 
norepinephrine [NE], brain-derived neurotrophic factor [BDNF], tryptophan 
hydroxylase 2 [TPH-2], 5-hydroxytryptophan [5-HTP], and tryptophan hydroxylase 
[TPH-1] levels). Hematoxylin and eosin staining and Nissl staining were 
conducted to observe histopathological changes in the hippocampus, the 
differences in the diversity of gut flora between groups were analyzed using 16S 
rRNA sequencing, and gas chromatography-mass spectrometry metabolomics was 
utilized to evaluate short-chain fatty acid (SCFA) concentrations. The findings 
indicated that CYP treatment increased the sucrose preference index, decreased 
the immobility time, and improved neuropathological injury. In depressed mice, 
CYP improved the dysregulation of the gut microbiota, and increased the SCFA 
levels. In addition, CYP enhanced the DA, 5-HT, NE, BDNF, and TPH-2 levels in 
the brain and the expression of 5-HTP and TPH-1 in the colon, while SCFAs were 
positively correlated with these levels. In summary, our study suggested that 
CYP may mitigate depression by ameliorating gut microbiota dysregulation, 
promoting the generation of SCFAs, and activation of 5-HT signaling expression.

DOI: 10.1089/jmf.2023.K.0050
PMID: 38010856 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


7. Sci Rep. 2023 Nov 16;13(1):20030. doi: 10.1038/s41598-023-46402-7.

Hemokinin-1 is a mediator of chronic restraint stress-induced pain.

Borbély É(#)(1)(2), Kecskés A(#)(3)(4), Kun J(3), Kepe E(3)(4), Fülöp B(3)(4), 
Kovács-Rozmer K(3)(5)(6), Scheich B(7), Renner É(8), Palkovits M(8), Helyes 
Z(3)(4)(9)(5)(10).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmacology and Pharmacotherapy, Medical School, University of 
Pécs, Pécs, Hungary. eva.borbely@aok.pte.hu.
(2)Centre for Neuroscience, University of Pécs, Pécs, Hungary. 
eva.borbely@aok.pte.hu.
(3)Department of Pharmacology and Pharmacotherapy, Medical School, University of 
Pécs, Pécs, Hungary.
(4)Centre for Neuroscience, University of Pécs, Pécs, Hungary.
(5)Chronic Pain Research Group, Hungarian Research Network, University of Pécs, 
Pécs, Hungary.
(6)Department of Pharmaceutical Chemistry, Faculty of Pharmacy, University of 
Pécs, Pécs, Hungary.
(7)Department of Pathology and Experimental Cancer Research, Faculty of 
Medicine, Semmelweis University, Budapest, Hungary.
(8)Human Brain Tissue Bank, Semmelweis University, Budapest, Hungary.
(9)PharmInVivo Ltd, Pécs, Hungary.
(10)National Laboratory for Drug Research and Development, Magyar Tudósok Krt. 
2, Budapest, 1117, Hungary.
(#)Contributed equally

The Tac4 gene-derived hemokinin-1 (HK-1) binds to the NK1 receptor, similarly to 
Substance P, and plays a role in acute stress reactions and pain transmission in 
mice. Here we investigated Tac4 mRNA expression in stress and pain-related 
regions and its involvement in chronic restraint stress-evoked behavioral 
changes and pain using Tac4 gene-deleted (Tac4-/-) mice compared to C57Bl/6 
wildtypes (WT). Tac4 mRNA was detected by in situ hybridization RNAscope 
technique. Touch sensitivity was assessed by esthesiometry, cold tolerance by 
paw withdrawal latency from 0°C water. Anxiety was evaluated in the light-dark 
box (LDB) and open field test (OFT), depression-like behavior in the tail 
suspension test (TST). Adrenal and thymus weights were measured at the end of 
the experiment. We found abundant Tac4 expression in the 
hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal axis, but Tac4 mRNA was also detected in the 
hippocampus, amygdala, somatosensory and piriform cortices in mice, and in the 
frontal regions and the amygdala in humans. In Tac4-/- mice of both sexes, 
stress-induced mechanical, but not cold hyperalgesia was significantly decreased 
compared to WTs. Stress-induced behavioral alterations were mild or absent in 
male WT animals, while significant changes of these parameters could be detected 
in females. Thymus weight decrease can be observed in both sexes. Higher 
baseline anxiety and depression-like behaviors were detected in male but not in 
female HK-1-deficient mice, highlighting the importance of investigating both 
sexes in preclinical studies. We provided the first evidence for the potent 
nociceptive and stress regulating effects of HK-1 in chronic restraint stress 
paradigm. Identification of its targets might open new perspectives for therapy 
of stress-induced pain.

© 2023. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1038/s41598-023-46402-7
PMCID: PMC10654722
PMID: 37973885 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no competing interests.


8. Front Neurosci. 2023 Oct 25;17:1292014. doi: 10.3389/fnins.2023.1292014. 
eCollection 2023.

Adolescent traumatic brain injury leads to incremental neural impairment in 
middle-aged mice: role of persistent oxidative stress and neuroinflammation.

Chen Z(1), Wang P(1), Cheng H(1), Wang N(1), Wu M(1), Wang Z(1), Wang Z(1), Dong 
W(1), Guan D(1), Wang L(1), Zhao R(1)(2)(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Forensic Pathology, School of Forensic Medicine, China Medical 
University, Shenyang, Liaoning, China.
(2)Key Laboratory of Environmental Stress and Chronic Disease Control and 
Prevention, Ministry of Education, China Medical University, Shenyang, Liaoning, 
China.
(3)Liaoning Province Key Laboratory of Forensic Bio-Evidence Sciences, Shenyang, 
China.

BACKGROUND: Traumatic brain injury (TBI) increases the risk of mental disorders 
and neurodegenerative diseases in the chronic phase. However, there is limited 
neuropathological or molecular data on the long-term neural dysfunction and its 
potential mechanism following adolescent TBI.
METHODS: A total of 160 male mice aged 8 weeks were used to mimic moderate TBI 
by controlled cortical impact. At 1, 3, 6 and 12 months post-injury (mpi), 
different neurological functions were evaluated by elevated plus maze, forced 
swimming test, sucrose preference test and Morris water maze. The levels of 
oxidative stress, antioxidant response, reactive astrocytes and microglia, and 
expression of inflammatory cytokines were subsequently assessed in the 
ipsilateral hippocampus, followed by neuronal apoptosis detection. Additionally, 
the morphological complexity of hippocampal astrocytes was evaluated by Sholl 
analysis.
RESULTS: The adolescent mice exhibited persistent and incremental deficits in 
memory and anxiety-like behavior after TBI, which were sharply exacerbated at 12 
mpi. Depression-like behaviors were observed in TBI mice at 6 mpi and 12 mpi. 
Compared with the age-matched control mice, apoptotic neurons were observed in 
the ipsilateral hippocampus during the chronic phase of TBI, which were 
accompanied by enhanced oxidative stress, and expression of inflammatory 
cytokines (IL-1β and TNF-α). Moreover, the reactive astrogliosis and 
microgliosis in the ipsilateral hippocampus were observed in the late phase of 
TBI, especially at 12 mpi.
CONCLUSION: Adolescent TBI leads to incremental cognitive dysfunction, and 
depression- and anxiety-like behaviors in middle-aged mice. The chronic 
persistent neuroinflammation and oxidative stress account for the neuronal loss 
and neural dysfunction in the ipsilateral hippocampus. Our results provide 
evidence for the pathogenesis of chronic neural damage following TBI and shed 
new light on the treatment of TBI-induced late-phase neurological dysfunction.

Copyright © 2023 Chen, Wang, Cheng, Wang, Wu, Wang, Wang, Dong, Guan, Wang and 
Zhao.

DOI: 10.3389/fnins.2023.1292014
PMCID: PMC10642192
PMID: 37965213

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that the research was 
conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial relationships that could 
be construed as a potential conflict of interest.


9. Neurochem Res. 2023 Nov 14. doi: 10.1007/s11064-023-04056-x. Online ahead of 
print.

Microglia-Dependent Reversal of Depression-Like Behaviors in Chronically 
Stressed Mice by Administration of a Specific Immuno-stimulant β-Glucan.

Zhao C(#)(1), Chen Z(#)(2), Lu X(#)(3), Hu W(#)(4), Yang R(#)(5), Lu Q(6), Chen 
B(3), Huang C(7).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmacy, Affiliated Hospital of Nantong University, #20 Xisi 
Road, Nantong, 226001, Jiangsu, China. Zhaocheng9003@163.com.
(2)Invasive Technology Department, First People's Hospital of Nantong City, the 
Second Affiliated Hospital of Nantong University, #666 Shengli Road, Nantong, 
226006, China.
(3)Department of Pharmacology, School of Pharmacy, Nantong University, #19 Qixiu 
Road, Nantong, 226001, Jiangsu Province, China.
(4)Department of Pharmacy, Affiliated Maternal and Child Health Hospital of 
Nantong University, #399 Shijidadao, Nantong, 226007, China.
(5)Department of Anesthesiology, Affiliated Hospital of Nantong University, #20 
Xisi Road, Nantong, 226001, Jiangsu, China.
(6)Department of Pharmacy, Nantong Third Hospital Affiliated to Nantong 
University, #60 Middle Qingnian Road, Nantong, 226006, Jiangsu, China.
(7)Department of Pharmacology, School of Pharmacy, Nantong University, #19 Qixiu 
Road, Nantong, 226001, Jiangsu Province, China. huangchao@ntu.edu.cn.
(#)Contributed equally

In recent years, the decline of microglia in the hippocampus has been shown to 
play a role in the development of depression, and its reversal shows marked 
antidepressant-like effects. β-glucan is a polysaccharide from Saccharomyces 
cerevisiae and has numerous beneficial effects on the nervous system, including 
improving axon regeneration and cognition. Considering its immuno-stimulatory 
activities in cultured microglia and brain tissues, we hypothesize that β-glucan 
may be a potential candidate to correct the functional deficiency of microglia 
and thereby alleviate depression-like behaviors in chronically stressed animals. 
An expected, our results showed that a single injection of β-glucan 5 h before 
behavioral tests at a dose of 10 or 20 mg/kg, but not at a dose of 5 mg/kg, 
reversed the depression-like behavior induced by chronic stress in mice in the 
tail suspension test, forced swimming test, and sucrose preference test. The 
effect of β-glucan (20 mg/kg) also showed time-dependent properties that were 
statistically significant 5 and 8, but not 3, hours after drug injection and 
persisted for at least 7 days. Fourteen days after β-glucan injection, no 
antidepressant-like effect was observed anymore. However, this effect was 
overcome by a second β-glucan injection (20 mg/kg) 14 days after the first 
β-glucan injection. Stimulation of microglia appeared to mediate the 
antidepressant-like effect of β-glucan, because both inhibition of microglia and 
their depletion prevented the antidepressant-like effect of β-glucan. Based on 
these effects of β-glucan, β-glucan administration could be developed as a new 
strategy for the treatment of depression.

© 2023. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Science+Business 
Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.

DOI: 10.1007/s11064-023-04056-x
PMID: 37962706


10. Pharmacol Biochem Behav. 2023 Dec;233:173674. doi: 10.1016/j.pbb.2023.173674.
 Epub 2023 Nov 8.

Nebulized and intraperitoneal ketamine have equivalent antidepressant-like 
effect in the forced swim and tail suspension tests in mice.

Brandão AAC(1), Deus DLS(2), Duarte-Filho LAMS(3), Menezes PMN(4), Massaranduba 
ABR(5), Silva FS(6), Ribeiro LAA(7).

Author information:
(1)Curso de mestrado em biociências, Universidade Federal do Vale do São 
Francisco (UNIVASF), Petrolina, PE 56304-917, Brazil.
(2)Curso de graduação em farmácia, Universidade Federal do Vale do São Francisco 
(UNIVASF), Petrolina, PE 56304-917, Brazil.
(3)UMR CNRS 7266 LIENSs, Département de Biotechnologie, La Rochelle Université, 
La Rochelle, France.
(4)Faculdade Maurício de Nassau (UNINASSAU), Av. Cardoso de Sá, 950, Cidade 
Universitária, Petrolina, PE CEP: 56328-020, Brazil; Faculdade de Petrolina 
(FACAPE), Campus Universitário, s/n, Vila Eduardo, Petrolina, PE CEP: 56328-903, 
Brazil.
(5)Universidade Federal do Vale do São Francisco (UNIVASF), Petrolina, PE 
56304-917, Brazil.
(6)Colegiado de Ciências Farmacêuticas (CFARM), Programa de Pós-graduação em 
Biociências (PGB), Universidade Federal do Vale do São Francisco (UNIVASF), 
Petrolina, PE 56304-917, Brazil.
(7)Colegiado de Ciências Farmacêuticas (CFARM), Programa de Pós-graduação em 
Biociências (PGB), Universidade Federal do Vale do São Francisco (UNIVASF), 
Petrolina, PE 56304-917, Brazil. Electronic address: 
luciano.ribeiro@univasf.edu.br.

Major depressive disorder (MDD) is a debilitating illness that affects millions 
of people worldwide. Currently available antidepressants often take weeks to 
months to reach their full effect, which leads to an increased risk of suicidal 
behavior in patients with MMD. Intranasally, esketamine has emerged as an 
alternative to current antidepressants because of its rapid onset and 
long-lasting effects in patients with MDD. Animal models are useful for the 
initial pharmacological screening and for a better understanding of the 
mechanisms underlying the effects of new drugs with potential against MDD. There 
is a lack of data on alternative routes of drug administration, either oral or 
injectable, that can be used in preclinical studies. This study aimed to test 
whether ketamine has antidepressant-like effects in mice when administered via 
nebulization using a low-cost apparatus. When mice whose depressive-like 
behavior was induced by corticosterone were treated with nebulized ketamine at 
concentrations of 1.3, 2.6, and 5.2 mg/mL, immobility was reduced by 38.6 %, 
62.0 %, and 61.1 %, respectively, in the forced swimming test (FST) and 43.6 %, 
42.1 %, and 57.9 %, respectively, in the tail suspension test (TST). When 
depression-like behavior was induced by dexamethasone, nebulization with 
ketamine reduced immobility by 79.7 %, 49.2 %, and 44.4 % in the FST and 80.9 %, 
71.4 %, and 80.4 %, respectively, in the TST. When depression-like behavior was 
induced by the association between dexamethasone and unpredictable chronic mild 
stress (UCMS) exposure, immobility was reduced by 26.1 %, 55.3 %, and 19.1 % in 
FST. Mice treated with nebulized ketamine did not show significant changes in 
the distance covered or in the time spent moving in the open field test. The 
efficacy of intraperitoneal and nebulized ketamine is equivalent, which shows 
that nebulization can be an alternative inexpensive route of drug administration 
for behavioral studies in rodents.

Copyright © 2023 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.pbb.2023.173674
PMID: 37949377 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
declare no conflicts of interest.


11. Int J Radiat Biol. 2023 Nov 7:1-14. doi: 10.1080/09553002.2023.2281515.
Online  ahead of print.

Radioprotective effect of Ginkgolide B on brain: the mediating role of DCC/MST1 
signaling.

Yang T(1)(2), Du X(3), Xu L(1).

Author information:
(1)School of Pharmacy, Jiangsu Key Laboratory of Inflammation and Molecular Drug 
Targets, Nantong University, Nantong, Jiangsu, China.
(2)Department of Radiotherapy, Affiliated Hospital of Nantong University, 
Nantong, Jiangsu, China.
(3)Division of Clinical Pharmacy, Department of Pharmacy, Drum Tower Hospital 
Affiliated to Medical School of Nanjing University, Nanjing, China.

PURPOSE: The risk of brain exposure to ionizing radiation increases gradually 
due to the extensive application of nuclear technology in medical, industrial, 
and aerospace fields. Radiation-induced brain injury (RBI) is highly likely to 
cause a wide range of neurological complications, including schizophrenia, 
Alzheimer's disease (AD), depression. Ginkgolide B (GB) is one of the effective 
active components extracted from ginkgo biloba leaves, exerts protective effects 
on CNS, which is involved in the regulation of the Hippo signaling pathway. 
MST1, as one of the core kinases of the Hippo pathway, participated in 
regulating cell proliferation, differentiation, and apoptosis. However, it 
remains unclear whether GB attenuates radiation brain injury (RBI) and whether 
the radioprotective effect of GB refers to MST1 signaling. Hence, our study 
aimed to explore the radiation protection effect and the potential mechanism of 
GB.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: C57BL/6 mice were stimulated with an X-ray (20 Gy) to 
establish an RBI model. Then, morris water maze test (MWM) and step-down passive 
avoidance test (SDPAT) were used to assess the learning and memory function of 
mice. The open field test (OFT), tail suspension test (TST), and forced swimming 
test (FST) were used to assess changes in locomotor activity and hopelessness. 
Besides, X-ray-stimulated SH-SY5Y cells were used to verify the radioprotective 
effect of GB. Immunofluorescence double staining, Dihydroethidium (DHE), western 
blot, and flow cytometry were used to explore the role of DCC/MST1 signaling in 
RBI.
RESULTS: In this study, X-ray-treated mice exhibited cognitive impairment and 
depression-like behavior, which was ameliorated by GB treatment. GB also reduced 
the ROS production and the number of TUNEL-positive cells in the hippocampus. 
Moreover, GB increased the protein levels of p-AKT and Bcl2, while decreased the 
protein levels of MST1, p-p38, p-JNK, cleaved-caspase-3 and Bax both in vivo and 
in vitro. Additionally, exogenous Netrin-1 alleviated X-ray-induced ROS 
production and apoptosis, whereas knockout of Netrin-1 receptor DCC abolished 
the protective effect of GB.
CONCLUSION: Oxidative stress and MST1-mediated neuronal apoptosis participated 
in radiation-induced cognitive impairment and depression-like behaviors, and 
modulation of DCC by GB was an effective intervention against RBI.

DOI: 10.1080/09553002.2023.2281515
PMID: 37934907


12. Neuroscience. 2023 Dec 15;535:99-107. doi:
10.1016/j.neuroscience.2023.10.025.  Epub 2023 Nov 4.

Rapamycin Exerts an Antidepressant Effect and Enhances Myelination in the 
Prefrontal Cortex of Chronic Restraint Stress Mice.

Zhang J(1), Li W(2), Yue Q(3), Liu L(4), Hou ST(5), Ju J(6).

Author information:
(1)School of Basic Medical Sciences, Xi'an Medical University, Xi'an, China; 
State Key Laboratory of Chemical Oncogenomics, Guangdong Provincial Key 
Laboratory of Chemical Genomics, Shenzhen Graduate School, Peking University, 
Shenzhen, China.
(2)State Key Laboratory of Chemical Oncogenomics, Guangdong Provincial Key 
Laboratory of Chemical Genomics, Shenzhen Graduate School, Peking University, 
Shenzhen, China.
(3)Brain Research Centre and Department of Biology, Southern University of 
Science and Technology, Shenzhen, China; Brain Cognition and Brain Disease 
Institute, Shenzhen Institutes of Advanced Technology, Chinese Academy of 
Sciences, Shenzhen, China.
(4)School of Biomedical Sciences, Faculty of Medicine, The Chinese University of 
Hong Kong, Shatin, NT, Hong Kong Special Administrative Region.
(5)Brain Research Centre and Department of Biology, Southern University of 
Science and Technology, Shenzhen, China. Electronic address: 
houst@sustech.edu.cn.
(6)Brain Research Centre and Department of Biology, Southern University of 
Science and Technology, Shenzhen, China. Electronic address: juj@sustech.edu.cn.

Depressive disorder is a psychiatric condition that is characterized by the core 
symptoms of anhedonia and learned helplessness. Myelination loss was recently 
found in the prefrontal cortex (PFC) of patients with depression and animal 
models, but the mechanism of this loss is unclear. In our previous study, 
chronic restraint stress (CRS) mice showed depressive-like symptoms. In this 
study, we found that myelin was reduced in the PFC of CRS mice. We also observed 
increased mammalian target of rapamycin (mTOR) phosphorylation levels in the 
PFC. Chronic injections of rapamycin, a mTOR complex inhibitor, prevented 
depressive behavior as shown by the forced swimming test and sucrose preference 
test. Rapamycin also increased myelination in the PFC of CRS mice. In summary, 
we found that CRS enhanced mTOR signaling and reduced myelination in the PFC and 
that rapamycin could prevent it. Our study provides the etiology of reduced 
myelin in depressive symptoms and suggests that mTOR signaling could be a target 
for treating depression or improving myelination deficits in depressive 
disorders.

Copyright © 2023 IBRO. Published by Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.neuroscience.2023.10.025
PMID: 37926147 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


13. Brain Behav Immun. 2024 Jan;115:280-294. doi: 10.1016/j.bbi.2023.10.031. Epub
 2023 Oct 31.

Priming of microglia with dysfunctional gut microbiota impairs hippocampal 
neurogenesis and fosters stress vulnerability of mice.

He H(1), He H(2), Mo L(1), You Z(3), Zhang J(4).

Author information:
(1)Center of Psychosomatic Medicine, Sichuan Provincial Center for Mental 
Health, School of Life Science and Technology, University of Electronic Science 
and Technology of China, Chengdu 610054, China.
(2)Guizhou University of Traditional Chinese Medicine, Guiyang 550025, China.
(3)Center of Psychosomatic Medicine, Sichuan Provincial Center for Mental 
Health, School of Life Science and Technology, University of Electronic Science 
and Technology of China, Chengdu 610054, China. Electronic address: 
youzili@uestc.edu.cn.
(4)Guizhou University of Traditional Chinese Medicine, Guiyang 550025, China. 
Electronic address: 552450374@qq.com.

BACKGROUND: Mental disorders may be involved in neuroinflammatory processes that 
are triggered by gut microbiota. How gut microbiota influence microglia-mediated 
sensitivity to stress remains unclear. Here we explored in an animal model of 
depression whether disruption of the gut microbiome primes hippocampal 
microglia, thereby impairing neurogenesis and sensitizing to stress.
METHODS: Male C57BL/6J mice were exposed to chronic unpredictable mild stress 
(CUMS) for 4 weeks, and effects on gut microbiota were assessed using 16S rRNA 
sequencing. Fecal microbiota was transplanted from control or CUMS mice into 
naïve animals. The depression-like behaviors of recipients were evaluated in a 
forced swimming test and sucrose preference test. The morphology and phenotype 
of microglia in the hippocampus of recipients were examined using 
immunohistochemistry, quantitative PCR, and enzyme-linked immunosorbent assays. 
The recipients were treated with lipopolysaccharide or chronic stress exposure, 
and effects were evaluated on behavior, microglial responses and hippocampal 
neurogenesis. Finally, we explored the ability of minocycline to reverse the 
effects of CUMS on hippocampal neurogenesis and stress sensitivity in 
recipients.
RESULTS: CUMS altered the gut microbiome, leading to higher relative abundance 
of some bacteria (Helicobacter, Bacteroides, and Desulfovibrio) and lower 
relative abundance of some bacteria (Lactobacillus, Bifidobacterium, and 
Akkermansia). Fecal microbiota transplantation from CUMS mice to naïve animals 
induced microglial priming in the dentate gyrus of recipients. This microglia 
showed hyper-ramified morphology, and became more sensitive to LPS challenge or 
chronic stress, which characterized by more significant morphological changes 
and inflammatory responses, as well as impaired hippocampal neurogenesis and 
increased depressive-like behaviors. Giving minocycline to recipients reversed 
these effects of fecal transplantation.
CONCLUSIONS: These findings suggest that gut microbiota from stressed animals 
can induce microglial priming in the dentate gyrus, which is associated with a 
hyper-immune response to stress and impaired hippocampal neurogenesis. 
Remodeling the gut microbiome or inhibiting microglial priming may be strategies 
to reduce sensitivity to stress.

Copyright © 2023. Published by Elsevier Inc.

DOI: 10.1016/j.bbi.2023.10.031
PMID: 37914097 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of Competing Interest The authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper.


14. Eur J Pharmacol. 2023 Dec 5;960:176120. doi: 10.1016/j.ejphar.2023.176120.
Epub  2023 Oct 19.

Ginsenoside Rg1 ameliorates depressive-like behavior by inhibiting NLRP3 
inflammasome activation in mice exposed to chronic stress.

He H(1), Xie X(2), Kang X(3), Zhang J(4), Wang L(5), Hu N(3), Xie L(1), Peng 
C(6), You Z(7).

Author information:
(1)Center of Psychosomatic Medicine, Sichuan Provincial Center for Mental 
Health, School of Life Science and Technology, University of Electronic Science 
and Technology of China, Chengdu, 610054, China; Sichuan Provincial People's 
Hospital, University of Electronic Science and Technology of China, Chengdu, 
610054, China.
(2)State Key Laboratory of Southwestern Chinese Medicine Resources, Pharmacy 
College, Chengdu University of Traditional Chinese Medicine, Chengdu, 611137, 
China.
(3)Sichuan Provincial People's Hospital, University of Electronic Science and 
Technology of China, Chengdu, 610054, China.
(4)Guizhou University of Traditional Chinese Medicine, Guiyang, 550025, China.
(5)The Fourth People's Hospital of Chengdu, Mental Health Center of Chengdu, 
Chengdu, 610036, China.
(6)State Key Laboratory of Southwestern Chinese Medicine Resources, Pharmacy 
College, Chengdu University of Traditional Chinese Medicine, Chengdu, 611137, 
China. Electronic address: pengchengcxy@126.com.
(7)Center of Psychosomatic Medicine, Sichuan Provincial Center for Mental 
Health, School of Life Science and Technology, University of Electronic Science 
and Technology of China, Chengdu, 610054, China; Sichuan Provincial People's 
Hospital, University of Electronic Science and Technology of China, Chengdu, 
610054, China. Electronic address: youzili@uestc.edu.cn.

Microglia-mediated inflammatory process is recognized as a target in the 
treatment of depression. Ginsenoside Rg1 (GRg1), the active ingredient of 
traditional ginseng, regulates microglial phenotypes to resist stress-induced 
inflammatory responses. Here we used a mouse model of stress-induced depression 
to investigate the involvement of microglial Nod-like receptor protein 3 (NLRP3) 
in the antidepressant effects of GRg1. Male C57BL/6J mice were exposed to 
chronic mild stress (CMS) for three weeks, followed by intraperitoneal injection 
of GRg1 (20 mg/kg) or the antidepressant imipramine (20 mg/kg) for another three 
weeks. Depressive-like behaviors were assessed by sucrose preference test, 
forced swimming test, and tail suspension test. Microglial phenotypes were 
assessed in terms of morphological features and cytokine profiles; inflammasome 
activity, in terms of levels of complexes containing NLRP3, apoptosis-associated 
speck-like protein containing CARD (ASC) and caspase-1; and neurogenesis, in 
terms of numbers of proliferating, differentiating, and mature neurons 
identified by immunostaining. GRg1 reduced abnormal animal behaviors caused by 
CMS, such as anhedonia and desperate behaviors, without affecting locomotor 
behaviors. GRg1 also reduced the number of ASC-specks, implying inhibition of 
inflammasome activation, which was associated with weaker activation of 
pro-inflammatory microglia. At the same time, GRg1 rescued impairment of 
hippocampal neurogenesis in vivo and in vitro, which correlated with modulation 
of microglial phenotypes. GRg1 exert antidepressant effects by preventing stress 
from activating the NLRP3 inflammasome in microglia, promoting a proneurogenic 
phenotype and allowing adult hippocampal neurogenesis.

Copyright © 2023 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ejphar.2023.176120
PMID: 37863415 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
declare no conflicts of interest related to this research.


15. Biol Psychiatry. 2023 Oct 18:S0006-3223(23)01627-X. doi: 
10.1016/j.biopsych.2023.10.007. Online ahead of print.

5-HT(1A) Receptors on Dentate Gyrus Granule Cells Confer Stress Resilience.

Bickle JG(1), Li Y(1), Millette A(1), Dixon R(1), Wu S(1), Arias EC(1), Luna 
VM(2), Anacker C(3).

Author information:
(1)Division of Systems Neuroscience, Department of Psychiatry, Columbia 
University and Research Foundation for Mental Hygiene, Inc., New York State 
Psychiatric Institute, New York, New York.
(2)Alzheimer's Center at Temple, Department of Neural Sciences, Lewis Katz 
School of Medicine, Temple University, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania.
(3)Division of Systems Neuroscience, Department of Psychiatry, Columbia 
University and Research Foundation for Mental Hygiene, Inc., New York State 
Psychiatric Institute, New York, New York; Columbia University Institute for 
Developmental Sciences, Department of Psychiatry, Columbia University Irving 
Medical Center, New York, New York; Columbia University Stem Cell Initiative, 
Columbia University Irving Medical Center, New York, New York. Electronic 
address: ca2635@cumc.columbia.edu.

BACKGROUND: Hyperactivity of granule cells in the ventral dentate gyrus (vDG) 
promotes vulnerability to chronic stress. However, which receptors in the vDG 
could be targeted to inhibit this hyperactivity and confer stress resilience is 
not known. The serotonin 1A receptor (5-HT1AR) is a Gi protein-coupled 
inhibitory receptor that has been implicated in stress adaptation, anxiety, 
depression, and antidepressant responses. 5-HT1ARs are highly expressed in the 
DG, but their potential to promote stress resilience by regulating granule cell 
activity has never been examined.
METHODS: We exposed male and female mice expressing 5-HT1ARs only in DG granule 
cells to 10 days of chronic social defeat stress (CSDS) and treated them with 
the 5-HT1AR agonist 8-OH-DPAT every day 30 minutes before each defeat throughout 
the CSDS paradigm. We then used whole-cell current clamp recordings, 
immunohistochemistry for the immediate early gene cFos, corticosterone 
immunoassays, and behavioral testing to determine how activating 5-HT1ARs on 
granule cells affects DG activity, neuroendocrine stress responses, and 
avoidance behavior.
RESULTS: We found that activating 5-HT1ARs hyperpolarized DG granule cells and 
reduced cFos+ granule cells in the vDG following CSDS, indicating that 5-HT1AR 
activation rescued stress-induced vDG hyperactivity. Moreover, 5-HT1AR 
activation dampened corticosterone responses to CSDS and prevented the 
development of stress-induced avoidance in the social interaction test and in 
the open field test.
CONCLUSIONS: Our findings show that activating 5-HT1ARs on DG granule cells can 
prevent stress-induced neuronal hyperactivity of the vDG and confer resilience 
to chronic stress.

Copyright © 2023 Society of Biological Psychiatry. Published by Elsevier Inc. 
All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.biopsych.2023.10.007
PMID: 37863245


16. J Ethnopharmacol. 2024 Jan 30;319(Pt 3):117289. doi:
10.1016/j.jep.2023.117289.  Epub 2023 Oct 14.

Saikosaponin a activates tet1/dll3/notch1 signalling and promotes hippocampal 
neurogenesis to improve depression-like behavior in mice.

Tong Y(1), Zhao G(2), Shuang R(1), Wang H(3), Zeng N(4).

Author information:
(1)State Key Laboratory of Southwestern Chinese Medicine Resources, School of 
Pharmacy, Chengdu University of Traditional Chinese Medicine, Chengdu, Sichuan, 
611137, PR China.
(2)State Key Laboratory of Southwestern Chinese Medicine Resources, School of 
Pharmacy, Chengdu University of Traditional Chinese Medicine, Chengdu, Sichuan, 
611137, PR China; Department of Pharmacy, The Affiliated Hospital of Southwest 
Medical University, Luzhou, Sichuan, 646000, PR China.
(3)College of Pharmacy, Ningxia Medical University, 1160 Shengli Street, 
Yinchuan, Ningxia, 750004, PR China. Electronic address: hqwangnx@tom.com.
(4)State Key Laboratory of Southwestern Chinese Medicine Resources, School of 
Pharmacy, Chengdu University of Traditional Chinese Medicine, Chengdu, Sichuan, 
611137, PR China. Electronic address: 19932015@cdutcm.edu.cn.

ETHNOPHARMACOLOGICAL RELEVANCE: Radix Bupleuri, also named "Chaihu" in Chinese, 
is a substance derived from the dry roots of Bupleurum chinense DC. [Apiaceae] 
and Bupleurum scorzonerifolium Willd. [Apiaceae]. Radix Bupleuri was initially 
recorded as a medicinal herb in Shen Nong Ben Cao Jing, the earliest monograph 
concerning traditional Chinese medicine (TCM). Ever since, Radix Bupleuri has 
been broadly used to alleviate exterior syndrome, disperse heat, modulate the 
liver-qi, and elevate yang-qi in TCM. Radix Bupleuri has also been utilized as 
an important component in Xiaoyaosan, a classical formula for relieving 
depression, which was originated from the famous Chinese medical book called 
"Tai Ping Hui Min He Ji Ju Fang" in Song Dynasty. Currently, many valuable 
pharmacological effects of Radix Bupleuri have been explored, such as 
antidepressant, neuroprotective activities, antiinflammation, anticancer, 
immunoregulation, etc. Former studies have illustrated that Saikosaponin A 
(SSa), one of the primary active components of Radix Bupleuri, possesses 
potential antidepressant properties. However, the underlying mechanisms still 
remain unknown.
AIM OF THE STUDY: We used a chronic social defeat stress (CSDS) mouse model to 
explore the ameliorative effects and potential mechanisms of SSa in depressive 
disorder in vivo.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: The CSDS mouse model was established and mice underwent 
behavioral studies using assays such as the social interaction test (SIT), 
sucrose preference test (SPT), forced-swim test (FST), tail suspension test 
(TST), and open field test (OFT). Western blotting, immunofluorescence, and 
Golgi staining were performed to investigate signaling pathway activity, and 
alterations in synaptic spines in the hippocampus. To model the anticipated 
interaction between SSa and Tet1, molecular docking and microscale 
thermophoresis (MST) techniques were employed. Finally, sh-RNA Tet1 was employed 
for validation via lentiviral transfection in CSDS mice to confirm the 
requirement of Tet1 for SSA efficacy.
RESULTS: SSa dramatically reduced depressed symptoms, boosted the expression of 
Tet1, Notch, DLL3, and BDNF, encouraged hippocampus development, and enhanced 
the dendritic spine density of hippocampal neurons. In contrast, Tet1 knockdown 
in CSDS mice dampened the beneficial effects of SSa on depressive symptoms.
CONCLUSIONS: Therefore, our results suggest that SSa significantly activates the 
Tet1/Notch/DLL3 signaling pathways and promotes hippocampal neurogenesis to 
exert antidepressant effects in the CSDS mouse model in vivo. The present 
results also provide new insight into the importance of the Tet1/DLL3/Notch 
pathways as potential targets for novel antidepressant development.

Copyright © 2023 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jep.2023.117289
PMID: 37844745 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper.


17. Brain Behav Immun. 2024 Jan;115:258-279. doi: 10.1016/j.bbi.2023.10.005. Epub
 2023 Oct 10.

Paternal immune activation by Poly I:C modulates sperm noncoding RNA profiles 
and causes transgenerational changes in offspring behavior.

Kleeman EA(1), Reisinger SN(1), Adithya P(1), Houston B(2), Stathatos G(2), 
Garnham AL(3), McLaughlin S(1), O'Bryan MK(2), Gubert C(1), Hannan AJ(4).

Author information:
(1)Florey Institute of Neuroscience and Mental Health, University of Melbourne, 
Parkville, Victoria, Australia.
(2)Bio21 Institute, University of Melbourne, Parkville, Victoria, Australia; 
School of BioSciences, University of Melbourne, Parkville, Victoria, Australia.
(3)Walter and Eliza Hall Institute of Medical Research, Parkville, Victoria, 
Australia; Department of Medical Biology, University of Melbourne, Parkville, 
Victoria, Australia.
(4)Florey Institute of Neuroscience and Mental Health, University of Melbourne, 
Parkville, Victoria, Australia; Department of Anatomy and Physiology, University 
of Melbourne, Parkville, Victoria, Australia. Electronic address: 
anthony.hannan@florey.edu.au.

Paternal pre-conceptual environmental experiences, such as stress and diet, can 
affect offspring brain and behavioral phenotypes via epigenetic modifications in 
sperm. Furthermore, maternal immune activation due to infection during gestation 
can reprogram offspring behavior and brain functioning in adulthood. However, 
the effects of paternal pre-conceptual exposure to immune activation on the 
behavior and physiology of offspring (F1) and grand-offspring (F2) are not 
currently known. We explored effects of paternal pre-conceptual exposure to 
viral-like immune activation on F1 and F2 behavioral and physiological 
phenotypes using a C57BL/6J mouse model. Males were treated with a single 
injection (intraperitoneal) of the viral mimetic polyinosinic:polycytidylic acid 
(Poly I:C: 12 mg/kg) then bred with naïve female mice four weeks after the Poly 
I:C (or 0.9% saline control) injection. The F1 offspring of Poly I:C treated 
fathers displayed increased depression-like behavior in the Porsolt swim test, 
an altered stress response in the novelty-suppressed feeding test, and 
significant transcriptomic changes in their hippocampus. Additionally, the F1 
male offspring of Poly I:C treated F0 males showed significantly increased 
immune responsivity after a Poly I:C immune challenge (12 mg/kg). Furthermore, 
the F2 male grand-offspring took longer to enter and travelled significantly 
shorter distances in the light zone of the light/dark box. An analysis of the 
small noncoding RNA profiles in sperm from Poly I:C treated males and their male 
offspring revealed significant effects of Poly I:C on the sperm microRNA content 
at the time of conception and on the sperm PIWI-interacting RNA content of the 
male offspring. Notably, eight miRNAs with an FDR < 0.05 (miR-141-3p, 
miR-126b-5p, miR-669o-5p, miR-10b-3p, miR-471-5p, miR-463-5p, miR-148b-3p, and 
miR-181c-5p) were found to be significantly downregulated in the sperm of Poly 
I:C treated males. Collectively, we demonstrate that paternal pre-conceptual 
exposure to a viral immune challenge results in both intergenerational and 
transgenerational effects on brain and behavior that may be mediated by 
alterations in the sperm small noncoding RNA content.

Copyright © 2023 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.bbi.2023.10.005
PMID: 37820975 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of Competing Interest The authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper.


18. Transl Psychiatry. 2023 Oct 6;13(1):310. doi: 10.1038/s41398-023-02614-z.

Melatonin alleviates depression-like behaviors and cognitive dysfunction in mice 
by regulating the circadian rhythm of AQP4 polarization.

Yao D(#)(1), Li R(#)(1)(2), Hao J(1), Huang H(1), Wang X(1), Ran L(1), Fang 
Y(1), He Y(1), Wang W(1)(3)(4), Liu X(5), Wang M(6)(7).

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology, Tongji Hospital, Tongji Medical College, Huazhong 
University of Science and Technology, Wuhan, 430030, China.
(2)Department of Pediatrics, Tongji Hospital, Tongji Medical College, Huazhong 
University of Science and Technology, Wuhan, 430030, China.
(3)Hubei Key Laboratory of Neural Injury and Functional Reconstruction, Huazhong 
University of Science and Technology, Wuhan, 430030, China.
(4)Key Laboratory of Neurological Diseases of the Chinese Ministry of Education, 
School of Basic Medicine, Tongji Medical College, Huazhong University of Science 
and Technology, Wuhan, 430030, China.
(5)Trauma Centre/ Department of Emergency and Trauma Surgery, Tongji Hospital, 
Tongji Medical College, Huazhong University of Science and Technology, Wuhan, 
430030, China. xinghualiu@tjh.tjmu.edu.cn.
(6)Department of Neurology, Tongji Hospital, Tongji Medical College, Huazhong 
University of Science and Technology, Wuhan, 430030, China. 
mhwang@tjh.tjmu.edu.cn.
(7)Hubei Key Laboratory of Neural Injury and Functional Reconstruction, Huazhong 
University of Science and Technology, Wuhan, 430030, China. 
mhwang@tjh.tjmu.edu.cn.
(#)Contributed equally

Depression is a common chronic psychiatric illness, which is resistant to 
medical treatments. While melatonin may alleviate certain depression symptoms, 
evidence for its efficacy against core symptoms is lacking. Here, we tested a 
mechanism whereby melatonin rescues the behavioral outcomes of the chronic 
unpredictable mild stress (CUMS) mouse model of depression. CUMS mice showed 
depressive behaviors to tail suspension, open field behavior, and sucrose 
preference test, and cognitive dysfunction in the Morris water maze. Impairments 
in these measures were relieved by melatonin treatment. Moreover, CUMS mice had 
impaired glymphatic function across the sleep-wake cycle due to the astrocytic 
loss and disturbance of circadian regulation of the polarized expression of 
aquaporin-4 (AQP4) water channels in perivascular astrocytes. EEG results in 
CUMS mice showed a reduced total sleep time and non-rapid eye movement (NREM) 
sleep, due to sleep fragmentation in the light phase. CUMS mice lost the normal 
rhythmic expressions of circadian proteins Per2, Cry2, Bmal1, Clock, and Per1. 
However, the melatonin treatment restored glymphatic system function and the 
polarization of AQP4, while improving sleep structure, and rectifying the 
abnormal expression of Per2, Bmal1, Clock, and Per1 in CUMS mice. Interestingly, 
Per2 expression correlated negatively with the polarization of AQP4. Further 
studies demonstrated that Per2 directed the location of AQP4 expression via 
interactions with the α-dystrobrevin (Dtna) subunit of AQP4 in primary cultured 
astrocytes. In conclusion, we report a new mechanism whereby melatonin improves 
depression outcomes by regulating the expression of the circadian protein Per2, 
maintaining the circadian rhythm of astrocytic AQP4 polarization, and restoring 
glymphatic function.

© 2023. Springer Nature Limited.

DOI: 10.1038/s41398-023-02614-z
PMCID: PMC10558463
PMID: 37802998 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no competing interests.


19. Brain Res Bull. 2023 Nov;204:110773. doi: 10.1016/j.brainresbull.2023.110773.
 Epub 2023 Oct 2.

Inhibition of ferroptosis alleviates chronic unpredictable mild stress-induced 
depression in mice via tsRNA-3029b.

Li E(1), Yin H(1), Su M(1), Li Q(1), Zhao Y(1), Zhang L(1), Guo J(1), Lai X(1), 
Xue X(2), Tang C(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychiatry, Nanfang Hospital of Southern Medical University, 
Guangzhou, China.
(2)Department of Psychiatry, Nanfang Hospital of Southern Medical University, 
Guangzhou, China. Electronic address: 819225108@qq.com.
(3)Department of Psychiatry, Nanfang Hospital of Southern Medical University, 
Guangzhou, China. Electronic address: tc608@aliyun.com.

Depression is a common mental illness. Ferroptosis is a form of cell death that 
may be responsible for neurological disease, but the role of ferroptosis in 
depression remains unclear. tRNA-derived small RNA (tsRNA) is an emerging 
non-coding small RNA, making it an important medium for studying neurological 
diseases. Chronic unpredictable mild stress (CUMS) was used to construct the 
depression model in mice, which was treated with ferrostatin-1 (Fer-1). 
Classical behavioral test, immunofluorescence and small RNA sequencing were used 
to detect depression-like behaviors, neuronal proliferation and the expression 
profile of tsRNAs in mice, respectively. The primary neuronal cell damage model 
was constructed by corticosterone (CORT), and the function of key tsRNA was 
investigated by quantitative real-time PCR, western blot and CCK-8 assays. Here, 
Fer-1 reduced the depression-like behavior of CUMS-induced mice and promoted 
neuronal growth. In addition, CUMS caused the disorder of tsRNA expression 
profile in hippocampal tissues of mice, and Fer-1 alleviated the abnormal tsRNA 
expression, among which tsRNA-3029b was an effective target. In vitro 
experiments manifested that ROS accumulation and decreased expression of SLC7A11 
and GPX4 were found in CORT-induced depression-like cell model, suggesting that 
ferroptosis was involved in neuronal injury. However, inhibition of tsRNA-3029b 
suppressed neuronal cell ferroptosis and facilitated neuronal regeneration. In 
conclusion, Fer-1 showed an antidepressant effect in CUMS-induced mice and 
alleviated the abnormal expression profile of tsRNA. tsRNA-3029b was a key 
target in depression, and silencing of tsRNA-3029b reduced the occurrence of 
ferroptosis and protected neurons from injury, which may provide novel target 
for the treatment of depression.

Copyright © 2023. Published by Elsevier Inc.

DOI: 10.1016/j.brainresbull.2023.110773
PMID: 37793597 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of Competing Interest The authors 
declare that they have no conflicts of interest.


20. Pharmacol Rep. 2023 Dec;75(6):1474-1487. doi: 10.1007/s43440-023-00530-z.
Epub  2023 Sep 19.

Investigating the potential effects of α-synuclein aggregation on susceptibility 
to chronic stress in a mouse Parkinson's disease model.

Alwani A(1), Maziarz K(1), Burda G(1), Jankowska-Kiełtyka M(1), Roman A(1), 
Łyszczarz G(1), Er S(2)(3), Barut J(1), Barczyk-Woźnicka O(4), Pyza E(4), 
Kreiner G(1), Nalepa I(1), Chmielarz P(5).

Author information:
(1)Department of Brain Biochemistry, Maj Institute of Pharmacology, Polish 
Academy of Sciences, Smętna 12, 31-343, Kraków, Poland.
(2)Faculty of Pharmacy, Drug Research Program, University of Helsinki, Helsinki, 
Finland.
(3)Institute of Biotechnology, HiLIFE, University of Helsinki, Helsinki, 
Finland.
(4)Department of Cell Biology and Imaging, Institute of Zoology and Biomedical 
Research, Jagiellonian University, Gronostajowa 9, 30-387, Kraków, Poland.
(5)Department of Brain Biochemistry, Maj Institute of Pharmacology, Polish 
Academy of Sciences, Smętna 12, 31-343, Kraków, Poland. chmiel@if-pan.krakow.pl.

BACKGROUND: Parkinson's disease (PD) is a motor disorder characterized by the 
degeneration of dopaminergic neurons, putatively due to the accumulation of 
α-synuclein (α-syn) in Lewy bodies (LBs) in Substantia Nigra. PD is also 
associated with the formation of LBs in brain areas responsible for emotional 
and cognitive regulation such as the amygdala and prefrontal cortex, and 
concurrent depression prevalence in PD patients. The exact link between 
dopaminergic cell loss, α-syn aggregation, depression, and stress, a major 
depression risk factor, is unclear. Therefore, we aimed to explore the interplay 
between sensitivity to chronic stress and α-syn aggregation.
METHODS: Bilateral injections of α-syn preformed fibrils (PFFs) into the 
striatum of C57Bl/6 J mice were used to induce α-syn aggregation. Three months 
after injections, animals were exposed to chronic social defeat stress.
RESULTS: α-syn aggregation did not affect stress susceptibility but 
independently caused increased locomotor activity in the open field test, 
reduced anxiety in the light-dark box test, and increased active time in the 
tail suspension test. Ex vivo analysis revealed modest dopaminergic neuron loss 
in the substantia nigra and reduced dopaminergic innervation in the dorsal 
striatum in PFFs injected groups. α-Syn aggregates were prominent in the 
amygdala, prefrontal cortex, and substantia nigra, with minimal α-syn 
aggregation in the raphe nuclei and locus coeruleus.
CONCLUSIONS: Progressive bilateral α-syn aggregation might lead to compensatory 
activity increase and alterations in emotionally regulated behavior, without 
affecting stress susceptibility. Understanding how α-syn aggregation and 
degeneration in specific brain structures contribute to depression and anxiety 
in PD patients requires further investigation.

© 2023. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1007/s43440-023-00530-z
PMCID: PMC10661792
PMID: 37725330 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that there is no conflict of 
interest.


21. eNeuro. 2023 Sep 28;10(9):ENEURO.0195-23.2023. doi:
10.1523/ENEURO.0195-23.2023.  Print 2023 Sep.

How Sucrose Preference Is Gained and Lost: An In-Depth Analysis of Drinking 
Behavior during the Sucrose Preference Test in Mice.

Wulff AB(1)(2), Cooper P(1)(2)(3), Kodjo E(1)(3), Abel E(1), Thompson SM(4)(5).

Author information:
(1)Department of Physiology, University of Maryland School of Medicine, 
Baltimore, MD 21201.
(2)Program in Neuroscience, Graduate Program in Life Sciences, University of 
Maryland Baltimore, Baltimore, MD 21201.
(3)ASCEND Scholars Program, Morgan State University, Baltimore, MD 21251.
(4)Department of Physiology, University of Maryland School of Medicine, 
Baltimore, MD 21201 scott.m.thompson@cuanschutz.edu.
(5)Department of Psychiatry, University of Colorado School of Medicine, Aurora, 
CO 80045.

The sucrose preference test (SPT) is a widely used preclinical assay for 
studying stress-sensitive reward behaviors and antidepressant treatments in 
rodents, with some face, construct, and predictive validity. However, while 
stress-induced loss of sucrose preference is presumed to reflect an 
anhedonic-like state, little detail is known about what behavioral components 
may influence performance in the SPT in stress-naive or stressed rodents. We 
analyzed the licking microstructure of mice during the SPT to evaluate how 
preference is expressed and lost following chronic stress. In stress-naive mice, 
preference is expressed as both longer and more numerous drinking bouts at the 
sucrose bottle, compared with the water bottle. We also found evidence that 
memory of the sucrose bottle location supports preference. Through manipulations 
of the caloric content of the sweetener or caloric need of the mouse, we found 
that energy demands and satiety signals do not affect either preference or the 
underlying drinking behavior. Both acute and chronic stress impaired sucrose 
location memory and reduced the number of drinking bouts at the sucrose bottle, 
the latter of which explained the loss of sucrose preference in stress 
susceptible mice compared with stress resilient mice. Female mice generally 
exhibited similar drinking behavior to male mice but may be less susceptible to 
chronic stress and display better memory performance than male mice, both before 
and after chronic stress. Our data suggest that chronic stress inhibits a 
sucrose preference by reducing reward seeking behavior without affecting 
palatability.

Copyright © 2023 Wulff et al.

DOI: 10.1523/ENEURO.0195-23.2023
PMCID: PMC10540674
PMID: 37699705

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no competing financial 
interests.


22. PeerJ. 2023 Sep 4;11:e16029. doi: 10.7717/peerj.16029. eCollection 2023.

Chronic unpredictable mild stress promotes atherosclerosis via adipose tissue 
dysfunction in ApoE(-/-) mice.

Mao M(#)(1), Deng Y(#)(1), Wang L(2), Zhao G(3), Qi R(1), Gong H(1), Shen T(1), 
Xu Y(4), Liu D(5), Chen B(1).

Author information:
(1)The Key Laboratory of Geriatrics, Beijing Institute of Geriatrics, Institute 
of Geriatric Medicine, Chinese Academy of Medical Sciences, Beijing 
Hospital/National Center of Gerontology of National Health Commission, Beijing, 
China.
(2)Department of Neurology, Beijing Hospital, Beijing, China.
(3)Department of Orthopedic Surgery, David Geffen School of Medicine, University 
of California, Los Angeles, CA, United States of America.
(4)Beijing Union University, Beijing, China.
(5)Department of Cardiology, Beijing Hospital, Beijing, China.
(#)Contributed equally

BACKGROUND: Chronic unpredictable mild stress (CUMS) has been shown to 
exacerbate atherosclerosis, but the underlying mechanism remains unknown. 
Adipose tissue is an energy storage organ and the largest endocrine organ in the 
human body, playing a key role in the development of cardiovascular disease. In 
this research, it was hypothesized that CUMS may exacerbate the development of 
atherosclerosis by inducing the hypertrophy and dysfunction of white adipocytes.
METHODS: The CUMS-induced atherosclerosis model was developed in Western 
diet-fed apolipoprotein E (ApoE)-/- mice. White adipose tissue (WAT), serum, 
aortic root, and the brachiocephalic trunk were collected and tested after 12 
weeks of CUMS development. The mouse model of CUMS was evaluated for 
depression-like behavior using the open field test (OFT) and the elevated plus 
maze (EPM) test. Enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) was conducted to 
detect serum noradrenaline and urine adrenaline protein levels. Serological 
assays were used to detect serum low-density lipoprotein (LDL), high-density 
lipoprotein (HDL), total cholesterol (TC), and free fatty acid (FFA) 
concentrations. Hematoxylin and eosin (H&E) staining and oil red O were used to 
detect atherosclerotic plaque area, lipid deposition, and adipocyte size. The 
mRNA levels of genes related to aberrant adipose tissue function were determined 
using real-time PCR. Immunofluorescence assay and western blotting were 
conducted to examine the expression of proteins in the adipose tissue samples.
RESULTS: CUMS aggravated vascular atherosclerotic lesions in ApoE-/- mice. It 
decreased body weight while increasing the percentage of WAT. The serological 
results indicated that the concentration of HDL decreased in CUMS mice. Notably, 
adipocyte hypertrophy increased, whereas the mRNA levels of Pparg and its target 
genes (Slc2a4 (encodes for GLUT4), Adipoq, and Plin1) decreased. Further 
investigation revealed that CUMS increased subcutaneous inguinal WAT (iWAT) 
lipid synthesis and adipocyte inflammation while decreasing lipid hydrolysis and 
the expression of HDL-associated protein ApoA-I. Moreover, CUMS aggravated 
insulin resistance in mice and inhibited the insulin pathway in iWAT.
CONCLUSIONS: These findings indicated that CUMS induces adipose tissue 
dysfunction via a mechanism that leads to dyslipidemia, increased inflammation, 
and insulin resistance in the body, thereby exacerbating atherosclerosis. 
Notably, CUMS that is involved in decreasing the expression of HDL-associated 
proteins in adipose tissue may be a crucial link between adipose hypertrophy and 
advanced atherosclerosis. This study reveals a novel mechanism via which CUMS 
exacerbates atherosclerosis from the novel perspective of abnormal adipose 
function and identifies a novel potential therapeutic target for this disease.

© 2023 Mao et al.

DOI: 10.7717/peerj.16029
PMCID: PMC10484201
PMID: 37692113 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that they have no competing 
interests.


23. Int J Mol Sci. 2023 Aug 29;24(17):13376. doi: 10.3390/ijms241713376.

Melatonin Prevents Depression but Not Anxiety-like Behavior Produced by the 
Chemotherapeutic Agent Temozolomide: Implication of Doublecortin Cells and Hilar 
Oligodendrocytes.

Cabrera-Muñoz EA(1), Ramírez-Rodríguez GB(1), Díaz-Yañez L(1), Reyes-Galindo 
V(2), Meneses-San Juan D(1), Vega-Rivera NM(3).

Author information:
(1)Laboratorio de Neurogénesis, Subdirección de Investigaciones Clínicas, 
Instituto Nacional de Psiquiatría "Ramón de la Fuente Muñiz", Calzada 
Mexico-Xochimilco 101, Ciudad de México 14370, Mexico.
(2)Instituto de Ecología, Universidad Nacional Autónoma de México, Circuito 
Exterior sin Número, Ciudad Universitaria, Ciudad de México 04510, Mexico.
(3)Laboratorio de Neurpsicofarmacología, Dirección de Neurociencias, Instituto 
Nacional de Psiquiatría "Ramón de la Fuente Muñiz", Calzada Mexico-Xochimilco 
101, Ciudad de México 14370, Mexico.

Melatonin is a hormone synthesized by the pineal gland with neuroprotective and 
neurodevelopmental effects. Also, melatonin acts as an antidepressant by 
modulating the generation of new neurons in the dentate gyrus of the 
hippocampus. The positive effects of melatonin on behavior and neural 
development may suggest it is used for reverting stress but also for the 
alterations produced by chemotherapeutic drugs influencing behavior and brain 
plasticity. In this sense, temozolomide, an alkylating/anti-proliferating agent 
used in treating brain cancer, is associated with decreased cognitive functions 
and depression. We hypothesized that melatonin might prevent the effects of 
temozolomide on depression- and anxiety-like behavior by modulating some aspects 
of the neurogenic process in adult Balb/C mice. Mice were treated with 
temozolomide (25 mg/kg) for three days of two weeks, followed by melatonin (8 
mg/kg) for fourteen days. Temozolomide produced short- and long-term decrements 
in cell proliferation (Ki67-positive cells: 54.89% and 53.38%, respectively) and 
intermediate stages of the neurogenic process (doublecortin-positive cells: 
68.23% and 50.08%, respectively). However, melatonin prevented the long-term 
effects of temozolomide with the increased number of doublecortin-positive cells 
(47.21%) and the immunoreactivity of 2' 3'-Cyclic-nucleotide-3 phosphodiesterase 
(CNPase: 82.66%), an enzyme expressed by mature oligodendrocytes, in the hilar 
portion of the dentate gyrus. The effects of melatonin in the temozolomide group 
occurred with decreased immobility in the forced swim test (45.55%) but not 
anxiety-like behavior. Thus, our results suggest that melatonin prevents the 
harmful effects of temozolomide by modulating doublecortin cells, hilar 
oligodendrocytes, and depression-like behavior tested in the forced swim test. 
Our study could point out melatonin's beneficial effects for counteracting 
temozolomide's side effects.

DOI: 10.3390/ijms241713376
PMCID: PMC10487426
PMID: 37686181 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


24. Neuropharmacology. 2023 Dec 1;240:109693. doi:
10.1016/j.neuropharm.2023.109693.  Epub 2023 Sep 5.

Microglial stimulation triggered by intranasal lipopolysaccharide administration 
produces antidepressant-like effect through ERK1/2-mediated BDNF synthesis in 
the hippocampus.

Ni M(1), Zheng M(2), Chen B(2), Lu X(2), Zhao H(2), Zhu T(2), Cheng L(1), Han 
H(2), Ye T(2), Liu H(3), Ye Y(4), Huang C(5), Yuan X(6).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmacy, Changzhou Geriatric Hospital Affiliated to Soochow 
University, Changzhou No.7 People's Hospital, 288# Yanling East Road, Changzhou, 
213000, Jiangsu, China.
(2)Department of Pharmacology, School of Pharmacy, Nantong University, #19 Qixiu 
Road, Nantong, 226001, Jiangsu, China.
(3)Department of Pharmacy, Yancheng First Hospital, The Fourth Affiliated 
Hospital of Nantong University, #66 Renmin South Road, Yancheng, 224006, 
Jiangsu, China.
(4)Department of Ultrasound, Affiliated Hospital of Nantong University, #20 Xisi 
Road, Nantong, 226001, Jiangsu, China.
(5)Department of Pharmacology, School of Pharmacy, Nantong University, #19 Qixiu 
Road, Nantong, 226001, Jiangsu, China. Electronic address: huangchao@ntu.edu.cn.
(6)Department of Cardiology, Sichuan Provincial People's Hospital, University of 
Electronic Science and Technology of China, #32 Xi'er Duan, 1ST Ring Road, 
Chengdu, 610072, Sichuan, China. Electronic address: yuanxiaomei0903@126.com.

We recently reported that reversing the chronic stress-induced decline of 
microglia in the dentate gyrus (DG) of the hippocampus by intraperitoneal 
injection of a low dose of lipopolysaccharide (LPS) ameliorated depression-like 
behavior in chronically stressed mice. In this study, we found that a single 
intranasal administration of LPS dose-dependently improved depression-like 
behavior in mice treated with chronic unpredictable stress (CUS), as evidenced 
by the reduction of immobility time in the tail suspension test (TST) and forced 
swimming test (FST) and by the increase of sucrose uptake in the sucrose 
preference test (SPT). The antidepressant effects of intranasal administration 
of LPS could be abolished by inhibition of brain-derived neurotrophic factor 
(BDNF) signaling by infusion of an anti-BDNF antibody, by knock-in of the mutant 
BDNF Val68Met allele, or by the BDNF receptor antagonist K252a. In addition, 
intranasal administration of LPS was found to exert antidepressant effects in a 
BDNF-dependent manner via promotion of BDNF synthesis mediated by extracellular 
signal-regulated kinase 1/2 (ERK1/2) signaling but not protein kinase B 
(Akt)-mammalian target of rapamycin (mTOR) signaling in DG. Inhibition of 
microglia by minocycline or depletion of microglia by PLX3397 was able to 
abolish the reversal effect of intranasal LPS administration on CUS-induced 
depression-like behaviors as well as the CUS-induced decrease in phospho-ERK1/2 
and BDNF protein levels in DG. These results demonstrate that stimulation of 
hippocampal microglia by intranasal LPS administration can induce antidepressant 
effects via ERK1/2-dependent synthesis of BDNF protein, providing hope for the 
development of new strategies for the treatment of depression.

Copyright © 2023 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.neuropharm.2023.109693
PMID: 37678448

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper.


25. J Affect Disord. 2023 Nov 15;341:248-255. doi: 10.1016/j.jad.2023.08.078.
Epub  2023 Aug 25.

Effects of aerobic exercise on depression-like behavior and TLR4/NLRP3 pathway 
in hippocampus CA1 region of CUMS-depressed mice.

Liu R(1), Zhou H(2), Qu H(3), Chen Y(1), Bai Q(4), Guo F(1), Wang L(1), Jiang 
X(1), Mao H(1).

Author information:
(1)College of Physical Education, Yichun University, Yichun 336000, Jiangxi 
Province, China.
(2)Continuing Education College, Yichun Vocational and Technical College, Yichun 
336000, Jiangxi Province, China.
(3)College of Physical Education, Yichun University, Yichun 336000, Jiangxi 
Province, China. Electronic address: ycxyqhl@126.com.
(4)Jiangxi Key Lab of Natural Drug Research, College of Chemistry and 
Bioengineering, Yichun University, Yichun 336000, Jiangxi Province, China.

BACKGROUND AND PURPOSE: The paper observes regulation of the expression levels 
of NLRP3 and TLR4 in hippocampal CA1 neurons in CUMS mice by aerobic exercise 
with constructing CUMS depression mouse model, in order to explore the 
neuroprotective mechanism of aerobic exercise on the hippocampus of depressed 
mice.
STUDY DESIGN AND METHOD: 24 healthy male 8-week-old C57BL/6 mice were randomly 
divided into CG, MG and ME. Thirteen stress-stimulating factors were randomly 
formulated into a CUMS stress-stimulating program. The mice were underwent 
28 days of CUMS depression model, referenced clinical means for experimental 
research. The study was approved by the Ethics Committee of Yichun University 
(YCUEC IRB number LSK NO.2022.18). After model preparation, ME mice were 
subjected to moderate-intensity treadmill exercise training for 8 weeks. TST, 
FST and SPT were used to detect the depression-like behaviors of the mice in 
each group. Nissl staining was used to compare the cell morphology in the CA1 
region of the mouse hippocampus. Immunohistochemical staining and western blot 
were used to detect the changes in the expression levels of NLRP3, TLR4 and 
other proteins in the CA1 region of the mouse hippocampus.
RESULTS: The results of neurobehavioral assessment showed that, the immobility 
time of TST and FST were significantly increased, and SPT index was 
significantly decreased of MG mice. Compared with MG, ME mice significantly 
improved depression-like behaviors such as TST, FST and SPT index. Nissl 
staining showed that the morphology of neurons in CA1 region of hippocampus of 
MG mice were mostly vacuolar-like, with severe nuclear pyknosis. Abnormal 
morphological changes such as vacuolar-like and pyknotic pyknosis of neurons in 
the hippocampal CA1 region of ME mice were significantly reduced. Protein 
expression test showed that the number of NLRP3, TLR4, IL-1β and IL-10 positive 
neurons in hippocampal CA1 region of MG mice increased significantly compared 
with CG, and the proportion of positive cells increased significantly, while 
NLRP3 and TLR4 positive neurons in the hippocampal CA1 region of ME mice were 
significantly reduced, the proportion of TLR4 positive cells was significantly 
reduced.
CONCLUSION: Systematic moderate-intensity exercise can effectively improve the 
depression-like behavior of CUMS depressed mice through the expression of 
TLR4/NLRP3 inflammatory signaling pathway, and provide an effective experimental 
basis for the clinical rehabilitation treatment of depression.

Copyright © 2023. Published by Elsevier B.V.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jad.2023.08.078
PMID: 37634821 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest None.


26. J Neurosci. 2023 Oct 4;43(40):6816-6829. doi: 10.1523/JNEUROSCI.0254-23.2023.
 Epub 2023 Aug 25.

Growth Hormone Action in Somatostatin Neurons Regulates Anxiety and Fear Memory.

Dos Santos WO(1), Juliano VAL(2), Chaves FM(1), Vieira HR(3), Frazao R(3), List 
EO(4), Kopchick JJ(4), Munhoz CD(2), Donato J Jr(5).

Author information:
(1)Department of Physiology and Biophysics, Instituto de Ciencias Biomedicas, 
Universidade de São Paulo, São Paulo 05508-000, Brazil.
(2)Department of Pharmacology, Instituto de Ciencias Biomedicas, Universidade de 
São Paulo, São Paulo 05508-000, Brazil.
(3)Department of Anatomy, Instituto de Ciencias Biomedicas, Universidade de São 
Paulo, São Paulo 05508-900, Brazil.
(4)Edison Biotechnology Institute and Heritage College of Osteopathic Medicine, 
Ohio University, Athens 45701, Ohio.
(5)Department of Physiology and Biophysics, Instituto de Ciencias Biomedicas, 
Universidade de São Paulo, São Paulo 05508-000, Brazil jdonato@icb.usp.br.

Dysfunctions in growth hormone (GH) secretion increase the prevalence of anxiety 
and other neuropsychiatric diseases. GH receptor (GHR) signaling in the amygdala 
has been associated with fear memory, a key feature of posttraumatic stress 
disorder. However, it is currently unknown which neuronal population is targeted 
by GH action to influence the development of neuropsychiatric diseases. Here, we 
showed that approximately 60% of somatostatin (SST)-expressing neurons in the 
extended amygdala are directly responsive to GH. GHR ablation in SST-expressing 
cells (SSTΔGHR mice) caused no alterations in energy or glucose metabolism. 
Notably, SSTΔGHR male mice exhibited increased anxiety-like behavior in the 
light-dark box and elevated plus maze tests, whereas SSTΔGHR females showed no 
changes in anxiety. Using auditory Pavlovian fear conditioning, both male and 
female SSTΔGHR mice exhibited a significant reduction in fear memory. 
Conversely, GHR ablation in SST neurons did not affect memory in the novel 
object recognition test. Gene expression was analyzed in a micro punch 
comprising the central nucleus of the amygdala (CEA) and basolateral (BLA) 
complex. GHR ablation in SST neurons caused sex-dependent changes in the 
expression of factors involved in synaptic plasticity and function. In 
conclusion, GHR expression in SST neurons is necessary to regulate anxiety in 
males, but not female mice. GHR ablation in SST neurons also decreases fear 
memory and affects gene expression in the amygdala, although marked sex 
differences were observed. Our findings identified for the first time a 
neurochemically-defined neuronal population responsible for mediating the 
effects of GH on behavioral aspects associated with neuropsychiatric 
diseases.SIGNIFICANCE STATEMENT Hormone action in the brain regulates different 
neurological aspects, affecting the predisposition to neuropsychiatric 
disorders, like depression, anxiety, and posttraumatic stress disorder. Growth 
hormone (GH) receptor is widely expressed in the brain, but the exact function 
of neuronal GH action is not fully understood. Here, we showed that mice lacking 
the GH receptor in a group of neurons that express the neuropeptide somatostatin 
exhibit increased anxiety. However, this effect is only observed in male mice. 
In contrast, the absence of the GH receptor in somatostatin-expressing neurons 
decreases fear memory, a key feature of posttraumatic stress disorder, in males 
and females. Thus, our study identified a specific group of neurons in which GH 
acts to affect the predisposition to neuropsychiatric diseases.

Copyright © 2023 the authors.

DOI: 10.1523/JNEUROSCI.0254-23.2023
PMCID: PMC10552943
PMID: 37625855


27. Food Funct. 2023 Sep 19;14(18):8409-8419. doi: 10.1039/d3fo02681g.

Suppressive effects of bilobalide on depression-like behaviors induced by 
chronic unpredictable mild stress in mice.

Li S(1), Yang C(1), Wu Z(1), Chen Y(2), He X(2), Liu R(1), Ma W(1), Deng S(1), 
Li J(1), Liu Q(1), Wang Y(1), Zhang W(1).

Author information:
(1)Engineering Research Center of Bio-Process of Ministry of Education, School 
of Food and Biological Engineering, Hefei University of Technology, Hefei 
230001, China. wuzeyu@hfut.edu.cn.
(2)Key Laboratory of Metabolism and Regulation for Major Diseases of Anhui 
Higher Education Institutes, Hefei University of Technology, Hefei 230001, 
China.

Background: Depression is a psychiatric disorder with depressed mood and even 
suicide attempts as the main clinical symptoms, and its pathogenesis has not yet 
been fully elucidated. Brain derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) plays an 
important role in the pathogenesis of depression. Purpose: The main aim of the 
present study was to evaluate the effectiveness and reveal the potential 
mechanisms of bilobalide (BB) intervention in alleviating depression-like 
behaviors by using chronic unpredictable mild stress (CUMS) mice via mediating 
the BDNF pathway. Methods: Behavioral assessments were carried out by using the 
sucrose preference test (SPT), tail suspension test (TST), and forced swimming 
test (FST). CUMS mice were randomly divided into 5 groups: CUMS + solvent, CUMS 
+ BB low, CUMS + BB medium, CUMS + BB high and CUMS + fluoxetine. Total serum 
levels of tumor necrosis factor (TNF-α) and interleukin-6 (IL-6) were measured 
by ELISA. Expression of TNF-α, IL-6, AKT, GSK3β, β-catenin, Trk-B and BDNF in 
the mouse hippocampus was assessed by western blotting. Results: BB treatment 
reduced the levels of pro-inflammatory cytokines (IL-6 and TNF-α) and increased 
the protein expression of BDNF in the hippocampus region of the CUMS mice. 
Moreover, BB treatment enhanced the AKT/GSK3β/β-catenin signaling pathway which 
is downstream of the BDNF receptor Trk-B in the hippocampus of these mice. 
Conclusions: Overall, the experimental results indicated that BB reverses 
CUMS-induced depression-like behavior. BB exerts antidepressant-like effects by 
inhibiting neuroinflammation and enhancing the function of neurotrophic factors.

DOI: 10.1039/d3fo02681g
PMID: 37615035 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


28. Front Neurosci. 2023 Aug 3;17:1224941. doi: 10.3389/fnins.2023.1224941. 
eCollection 2023.

Chronic unpredictable mild stress alters odor hedonics and adult olfactory 
neurogenesis in mice.

Athanassi A(1), Breton M(1), Chalençon L(1), Brunelin J(2)(3), Didier A(1), Bath 
K(4)(5), Mandairon N(1).

Author information:
(1)INSERM, U1028, CNRS UMR5292, Neuropop Team, Lyon Neuroscience Research 
Center, Université Claude Bernard Lyon 1, Université Jean Monnet, Bron, France.
(2)Centre Hospitalier Le Vinatier, Bron, France.
(3)INSERM, U1028, CNRS UMR5292, PSYR2 Team, Lyon Neuroscience Research Center, 
Université Claude Bernard Lyon 1, Université Jean Monnet, Bron, France.
(4)Division of Developmental Neuroscience, New York State Psychiatric Institute, 
Research Foundation for Mental Hygiene, New York, NY, United States.
(5)Department of Psychiatry, Columbia University Medical College, New York, NY, 
United States.

Experiencing chronic stress significantly increases the risk for depression. 
Depression is a complex disorder with varied symptoms across patients. However, 
feeling of sadness and decreased motivation, and diminished feeling of pleasure 
(anhedonia) appear to be core to most depressive pathology. Odorants are potent 
signals that serve a critical role in social interactions, avoiding danger, and 
consummatory behaviors. Diminished quality of olfactory function is associated 
with negative effects on quality of life leading to and aggravating the symptoms 
of depression. Odor hedonic value (I like or I dislike this smell) is a dominant 
feature of olfaction and guides approach or avoidance behavior of the odor 
source. The neural representation of the hedonic value of odorants is carried by 
the granule cells in the olfactory bulb, which functions to modulate the 
cortical relay of olfactory information. The granule cells of the olfactory bulb 
and those of the dentate gyrus are the two major populations of cells in the 
adult brain with continued neurogenesis into adulthood. In hippocampus, 
decreased neurogenesis has been linked to development or maintenance of 
depression symptoms. Here, we hypothesize that chronic mild stress can alter 
olfactory hedonics through effects on the olfactory bulb neurogenesis, 
contributing to the broader anhedonia phenotype in stress-associated depression. 
To test this, mice were subjected to chronic unpredictable mild stress and then 
tested on measures of depressive-like behaviors, odor hedonics, and measures of 
olfactory neurogenesis. Chronic unpredictable mild stress led to a selective 
effect on odor hedonics, diminishing attraction to pleasant but not unpleasant 
odorants, an effect that was accompanied by a specific decrease in adult 
neurogenesis and of the percentage of adult-born cells responding to pleasant 
odorants in the olfactory bulb.

Copyright © 2023 Athanassi, Breton, Chalençon, Brunelin, Didier, Bath and 
Mandairon.

DOI: 10.3389/fnins.2023.1224941
PMCID: PMC10435088
PMID: 37600017

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that the research was 
conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial relationships that could 
be construed as a potential conflict of interest.


29. ACS Chem Neurosci. 2023 Sep 6;14(17):3173-3182. doi: 
10.1021/acschemneuro.3c00306. Epub 2023 Aug 14.

Yamogenin Exhibits Antidepressant-like Effects via Inhibition of ER Stress and 
Microglial Activation in LPS-Induced Mice.

Chen PL(1)(2), Xu GH(1)(2), Li M(1), Zhang JY(1), Cheng J(3), Li CF(4), Yi 
LT(3).

Author information:
(1)Xiamen Medicine Research Institute, Xiamen 361008, Fujian, P. R. China.
(2)Fujian University of Traditional Chinese Medicine College of Pharmacy, Fujian 
361008, Fuzhou, P. R. China.
(3)Department of Chemical and Pharmaceutical Engineering, College of Chemical 
Engineering, Huaqiao University, Xiamen 361021, Fujian, P. R. China.
(4)Xiamen Hospital of Traditional Chinese Medicine, Xiamen 361009, Fujian, P. R. 
China.

Depression is a multifaceted psychiatric disorder that affects a significant 
number of individuals worldwide, and its pathophysiology encompasses a variety 
of mechanisms, including the induction of endoplasmic reticulum (ER) stress, 
which has been correlated with depressive-like behaviors in animal models. 
Yamogenin, a bioactive compound derived from traditional Chinese medicine 
Dioscorea species, possesses diverse pharmacological properties. This 
investigation aimed to explore the antidepressant-like effects of yamogenin and 
the underlying mechanisms involved. By utilizing a murine model of 
lipopolysaccharide (LPS)-induced depressive-like behavior, we demonstrated that 
yamogenin enhanced sucrose preference and reduced immobility time in the forced 
swimming test. These effects were observed alongside the attenuation of ER 
stress through modulation of the PERK/eIF2α/ATF4/CHOP signaling pathway in the 
prefrontal cortex. Moreover, yamogenin augmented the expression of the 
antiapoptotic protein Bcl-2 while diminishing the expression of the proapoptotic 
protein caspase-3. Additionally, yamogenin exhibited inhibitory effects on 
microglial activation but did not elicit the promotion of brain-derived 
neurotrophic factor (BDNF) signaling. Collectively, our findings propose that 
yamogenin exerts antidepressant-like effects in LPS-induced mice by inhibiting 
ER stress and microglial activation. This study contributes novel insights into 
the potential utilization of yamogenin as a natural antidepressant agent.

DOI: 10.1021/acschemneuro.3c00306
PMID: 37579249 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


30. Int Immunopharmacol. 2023 Oct;123:110720. doi: 10.1016/j.intimp.2023.110720. 
Epub 2023 Aug 8.

SIRT1/PARP-1/NLRP3 cascade as a potential target for niacin neuroprotective 
effect in lipopolysaccharide-induced depressive-like behavior in mice.

Abdel Rasheed NO(1), Shiha NA(2), Mohamed SS(2), Ibrahim WW(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmacology and Toxicology, Faculty of Pharmacy, Cairo 
University, Cairo, Egypt. Electronic address: nora.osama@pharma.cu.edu.eg.
(2)Department of Pharmacology and Toxicology, Faculty of Pharmacy, Cairo 
University, Cairo, Egypt.

Depression is a serious mood disorder characterized by monoamines deficiency, 
oxidative stress, neuroinflammation, and cell death. Niacin (vitamin B3 or 
nicotinic acid, NA), a chief mediator of neuronal development and survival in 
the central nervous system, exerts neuroprotective effects in several 
experimental models.
AIMS: This study aimed to investigate the effect of NA in lipopolysaccharide 
(LPS) mouse model of depression exploring its ability to regulate sirtuin1/poly 
(ADP-ribose) polymerase-1 (PARP-1)/nod-likereceptor protein 3 (NLRP3) signaling.
MAIN METHODS: Mice were injected with LPS (500 µg/kg, i.p) every other day alone 
or concurrently with oral doses of either NA (40 mg/kg/day) or escitalopram 
(10 mg/kg/day) for 14 days.
KEY FINDINGS: Administration of NA resulted in significant attenuation of 
animals' despair reflected by decreased immobility time in forced swimming test. 
Moreover, NA induced monoamines upsurge in addition to sirtuin1 activation with 
subsequent down regulation of PARP-1 in the hippocampus. Further, it diminished 
nuclear factor-κB (NF-κB) levels and inhibited NLRP3 inflammasome with 
consequent reduction of caspase-1, interleukin-1β and tumor necrosis factor-α 
levels, thus mitigating LPS-induced neuroinflammation. NA also reduced tumor 
suppressor protein (p53) while elevating brain-derived neurotrophic factor 
levels. LPS-induced decline in neuronal survival was reversed by NA 
administration with an obvious increase in the number of intact cells recorded 
in the histopathological micrographs.
SIGNIFICANCE: Accordingly, NA is deemed as a prosperous candidate for depression 
management via targeting SIRT1/PARP-1 pathway.

Copyright © 2023 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.intimp.2023.110720
PMID: 37562290 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of Competing Interest The authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper.


31. Int J Mol Sci. 2023 Jul 20;24(14):11712. doi: 10.3390/ijms241411712.

Maternal Chronic Ultrasound Stress Provokes Immune Activation and Behavioral 
Deficits in the Offspring: A Mouse Model of Neurodevelopmental Pathology.

Pavlov D(1)(2), Gorlova A(2), Haque A(1), Cavalcante C(3), Svirin E(2), Burova 
A(2), Grigorieva E(2), Sheveleva E(2), Malin D(4), Efimochkina S(4), Proshin 
A(5), Umriukhin A(4), Morozov S(2), Strekalova T(2).

Author information:
(1)Hotchkiss Brain Institute, University of Calgary, Calgary, AB T2N 1N4, 
Canada.
(2)Laboratory of Cognitive Dysfunctions, Institute of General Pathology and 
Pathophysiology, Russian Academy of Medical Sciences, 125315 Moscow, Russia.
(3)Department of Human Health and Science, MacEwan University, Edmonton, AB T5J 
4S2, Canada.
(4)Laboratory of Psychiatric Neurobiology, Department of Normal Physiology, 
Institute of Molecular Medicine, Sechenov First Moscow State Medical University, 
119991 Moscow, Russia.
(5)P.K. Anokhin Research Institute of Normal Physiology, 125315 Moscow, Russia.

Neurodevelopmental disorders stemming from maternal immune activation can 
significantly affect a child's life. A major limitation in pre-clinical studies 
is the scarcity of valid animal models that accurately mimic these challenges. 
Among the available models, administration of lipopolysaccharide (LPS) to 
pregnant females is a widely used paradigm. Previous studies have reported that 
a model of 'emotional stress', involving chronic exposure of rodents to 
ultrasonic frequencies, induces neuroinflammation, aberrant neuroplasticity, and 
behavioral deficits. In this study, we explored whether this model is a suitable 
paradigm for maternal stress and promotes neurodevelopmental abnormalities in 
the offspring of stressed females. Pregnant dams were exposed to ultrasound 
stress for 21 days. A separate group was injected with LPS on embryonic days 
E11.5 and E12.5 to mimic prenatal infection. The behavior of the dams and their 
female offspring was assessed using the sucrose test, open field test, and 
elevated plus maze. Additionally, the three-chamber sociability test and Barnes 
maze were used in the offspring groups. ELISA and qPCR were used to examine 
pro-inflammatory changes in the blood and hippocampus of adult females. 
Ultrasound-exposed adult females developed a depressive-like syndrome, 
hippocampal overexpression of GSK-3β, IL-1β, and IL-6 and increased serum 
concentrations of IL-1β, IL-6, IL-17, RANTES, and TNFα. The female offspring 
also displayed depressive-like behavior, as well as cognitive deficits. These 
abnormalities were comparable to the behavioral changes induced by LPS. The 
ultrasound stress model can be a promising animal paradigm of neurodevelopmental 
pathology associated with prenatal 'emotional stress'.

DOI: 10.3390/ijms241411712
PMCID: PMC10380915
PMID: 37511470 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that the research was 
conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial relationships that could 
be construed as potential conflicts of interest. This work was carried out 
between 1 January 2020–1 January 2022.


32. CNS Neurosci Ther. 2023 Jul 27. doi: 10.1111/cns.14370. Online ahead of
print.

Presenilin-2 knock-In mice show severe depressive behavior via DVL3 
downregulation.

Yoo SS(1), Lee DW(2)(3), Ham HJ(1), Yeo IJ(1), Chang JY(1), Yun J(1), Son DJ(1), 
Han SB(1), Hong JT(1).

Author information:
(1)College of Pharmacy and Medical Research Center, Chungbuk National 
University, Cheongju, South Korea.
(2)Ministry of Food and Drug Safety (MFDS), Cheongju, South Korea.
(3)Korea Health Industry Development Institute, Cheongju, South Korea.

INTRODUCTION: Alzheimer's disease (AD) is the most common form of dementia. 
Depression is one of the most critical psychiatric complications of AD, and 
20%-30% of patients with AD experience symptoms of depression. Phospho-glycogen 
synthase kinase-3 beta (GSK3β) is known to be associated with AD and depression. 
Furthermore, the role of disheveled (DVL) is known to regulate GSK3β. Moreover, 
presenilin-2 (PS2) and DVL have cross-talk with each other. Also, it is widely 
hypothesized that stress leads to hypersecretion of cortisol and is thus 
associated with depression. Dickkopf WNT signaling pathway inhibitor-1 (DKK-1) 
is a crucial factor regulating depression and both amyloid beta (Aβ) and 
phosphorylation of tau are widely known as a biomarker of AD.
METHODS: To investigate the relationship between AD and depression, and possible 
pathways connecting the two diseases, we examined memory function and 
depression-related behavior test results in PS2 knock-in AD mice (PS2 MT). Next, 
we confirmed that there are relationships between DVL, depression, and cognitive 
disease through the comparative toxicogenomics database (https://ctdbase.org) 
and STRING (https://string-db.org) database.
RESULTS: PS2 knock-in mice showed much more severe memory impairment and 
depression than PS2 wild-type mice (PS2 WT). In AD-related behavioral 
experiments, PS2 MT mice showed more memory dysfunction compared with PS2 WT 
group mice. Moreover, Aβ and phosphorylation of tau showed higher expression in 
PS2 MT mice than in PS2 WT mice. Depression-related behavioral tests showed that 
PS2 MT mice exhibited more depressive behaviors than PS2 WT mice. Furthermore, 
both higher cortisol levels and higher expression of DKK-1 were found in PS2 MT 
mice relative to PS2 WT mice. The results indicated that there is a relationship 
between DVL and the release of AD-related mediators and expression of the 
depression-related glucocorticoid receptor and DKK-1. In the PS2 knock-in group, 
DVL was significantly decreased compared with the PS2 WT group.
CONCLUSION: Depression increases the risk of developing AD and other forms of 
dementia. Recent evidence indicates that depression symptoms could trigger 
changes in memory and thinking over time. However, it is recognized that there 
are no drugs to facilitate a full recovery for both AD and depression. However, 
our results suggest that AD and depression could be associated, and DVL could be 
a significant target for the association between AD and depression.

© 2023 The Authors. CNS Neuroscience & Therapeutics Published by John Wiley & 
Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/cns.14370
PMID: 37501340


33. Nutrients. 2023 Apr 23;15(9):2041. doi: 10.3390/nu15092041.

The Influence of Topinambur and Inulin Preventive Supplementation on Microbiota, 
Anxious Behavior, Cognitive Functions and Neurogenesis in Mice Exposed to the 
Chronic Unpredictable Mild Stress.

Szala-Rycaj J(1), Szewczyk A(1), Zagaja M(1), Kaczmarczyk-Ziemba A(2), Maj M(3), 
Andres-Mach M(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Experimental Pharmacology, Institute of Rural Health, 
Jaczewskiego 2, 20-090 Lublin, Poland.
(2)Department of Evolutionary Genetics and Biosystematics, Faculty of Biology, 
University of Gdansk, WitaStwosza 59, 80-308 Gdansk, Poland.
(3)Department of Biopharmacy, Medical University of Lublin, Chodzki 4A, 20-093 
Lublin, Poland.

Daily living and functioning under stress can lead to mental health problems 
such as anxiety or depression. Over the past decades, a number of studies have 
been conducted to determine the relationship between the central nervous system 
(CNS), intestinal flora and bidirectional communication along the gut brain axis 
(GBA) in the maintaining of homeostasis. One of the most important factors 
regulating GBA functioning in exposure to stress may be a proper diet enriched 
in the supplementation with pre-, pro-and synbiotics. In the present study, we 
examined whether a 10-week oral preventive supplementation with natural 
prebiotics: topinambur powder (TPB) and chicory root inulin (INU) influenced an 
anxiety, depressive behavior and cognition in mice exposed to the chronic 
unpredictable mild stress (CUMS). Additionally, a fluoxetine (FLU) has been used 
as a reference antidepressive drug. Furthermore, we assessed the effect of TPB, 
INU and FLU administration on neurogenesis in mice exposed to CUMS and finally 
analyzed fecal microbiota for possible changes after TPB and INU supplementation 
in CUMS induced mice. Results obtained from the behavioral studies (elevated 
plaze maze, forced swim and Morris water maze test) indicated, that 10 week 
supplementation with TPB (250 mg/kg) and INU (66 mg/kg), similarly to FLU (12 
mg/kg), significantly mitigated an anxiety and stress as well as protected 
learning and memory functions in the CUMS induced mice compared to the control 
stressed group. Additionally, TPB and INU CUMS mice showed significantly higher 
level of neurogenesis in comparison to control CUMS group. Interestingly, 
results obtained from the fecal microbiota analysis showed a beneficial effect 
of TPB and INU supplementation against CUMS-induced intestinal dysbiosis in 
mice. In conclusion, the obtained results showed that a long-term, preventive 
supplementation with TPB or INU alleviates the negative effects such as anxiety, 
cognitive disorders or dysbiosis in mice exposed to chronic unpredictable 
stress.

DOI: 10.3390/nu15092041
PMCID: PMC10181297
PMID: 37432210 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


34. J Neurosci. 2023 Aug 23;43(34):5996-6009. doi:
10.1523/JNEUROSCI.0016-23.2023.  Epub 2023 Jul 10.

Reactivation of Early-Life Stress-Sensitive Neuronal Ensembles Contributes to 
Lifelong Stress Hypersensitivity.

Balouek JA(1), Mclain CA(1), Minerva AR(1), Rashford RL(1), Bennett SN(1), 
Rogers FD(1), Peña CJ(2).

Author information:
(1)Princeton Neuroscience Institute, Princeton University, Princeton, New Jersey 
08544.
(2)Princeton Neuroscience Institute, Princeton University, Princeton, New Jersey 
08544 cpena@princeton.edu.

Early-life stress (ELS) is one of the strongest lifetime risk factors for 
depression, anxiety, suicide, and other psychiatric disorders, particularly 
after facing additional stressful events later in life. Human and animal studies 
demonstrate that ELS sensitizes individuals to subsequent stress. However, the 
neurobiological basis of such stress sensitization remains largely unexplored. 
We hypothesized that ELS-induced stress sensitization would be detectable at the 
level of neuronal ensembles, such that cells activated by ELS would be more 
reactive to adult stress. To test this, we leveraged transgenic mice to 
genetically tag, track, and manipulate experience-activated neurons. We found 
that in both male and female mice, ELS-activated neurons within the nucleus 
accumbens (NAc), and to a lesser extent the medial prefrontal cortex, were 
preferentially reactivated by adult stress. To test whether reactivation of 
ELS-activated ensembles in the NAc contributes to stress hypersensitivity, we 
expressed hM4Dis receptor in control or ELS-activated neurons of pups and 
chemogenetically inhibited their activity during experience of adult stress. 
Inhibition of ELS-activated NAc neurons, but not control-tagged neurons, 
ameliorated social avoidance behavior following chronic social defeat stress in 
males. These data provide evidence that ELS-induced stress hypersensitivity is 
encoded at the level of corticolimbic neuronal ensembles.SIGNIFICANCE STATEMENT 
Early-life stress enhances sensitivity to stress later in life, yet the 
mechanisms of such stress sensitization are largely unknown. Here, we show that 
neuronal ensembles in corticolimbic brain regions remain hypersensitive to 
stress across the life span, and quieting these ensembles during experience of 
adult stress rescues stress hypersensitivity.

Copyright © 2023 the authors.

DOI: 10.1523/JNEUROSCI.0016-23.2023
PMCID: PMC10451005
PMID: 37429717 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


35. BMC Cardiovasc Disord. 2023 Jul 8;23(1):342. doi: 10.1186/s12872-023-03378-6.

Selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors regulate the interrelation between 5-HT 
and inflammation after myocardial infarction.

Zhang L(1), Lu N(1)(2), Liu M(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Psycho-cardiology, Beijing Anzhen Hospital, Capital Medical 
University, Beijing, 100029, China.
(2)Department of Cardiology, the First Affiliated Hospital of Shantou University 
Medical College, Shantou, Guangdong, 515041, China.
(3)Department of Psycho-cardiology, Beijing Anzhen Hospital, Capital Medical 
University, Beijing, 100029, China. liumeiyanaz@ccmu.edu.cn.

BACKGROUND: Acute myocardial infarction (AMI) is a main cause of death all 
around the world. There is a close relationship between myocardial infarction 
(MI) and depression. MI patients with untreated depression had higher mortality 
than those without depression. Therefore, this study aimed to explore the effect 
of escitalopram in treating a model under MI and unpredictable chronic mild 
stress (UCMS).
METHODS: Male C57BL/6J mice were treated with sham surgery, or MI surgery, or 
UCMS, or escitalopram (ES) for a consecutive two weeks. And the mice were 
divided into Sham group, MI group, MI + UCMS group, MI + UCMS + ES group (n = 8 
in each group). After treatment, the mice went through open field test for 
anxiety behavior, sucrose preference test for depressive behavior. After 
sacrificed, the blood, heart, hippocampus, and cortex were collected.
RESULTS: The escitalopram badly increased the area of cardiac fibrosis size. The 
sucrose preference test demonstrated that escitalopram treatment showed 
significant effect in improving depressive behaviors of mice under MI + UCMS. 
The potential mechanism involved the interrelation between 5-HT system and 
inflammation. MI significantly affected the level of cardiac SERT. Both UCMS and 
ES significantly affected the level of cortex TNF-α. UCMS significantly affected 
the level of cardiac IL-33. In the hippocampus tissue, TNF-α was positively 
correlated with SERT, and IL-10 was positively correlated with SERT. In the 
cortex tissue, IL-33 was positively correlated with 5-HT4R, and sST2 was 
positively correlated with 5-HT.
CONCLUSIONS: Two-week escitalopram treatment might worsen myocardial infarction. 
But escitalopram could benefit depressive behaviors, which may be related with 
the interrelationship between the 5-HT system and inflammatory factors in the 
brain.

© 2023. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1186/s12872-023-03378-6
PMCID: PMC10329792
PMID: 37422634 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: All the authors declared that there are no 
conflicts of interest in this study.


36. Physiol Behav. 2023 Oct 1;269:114288. doi: 10.1016/j.physbeh.2023.114288.
Epub  2023 Jul 5.

Estrogen administration and withdrawal in a model of hormone-simulated pregnancy 
lead to alterations in behavior and gene expression but do not induce 
depression-like phenotypes in mice.

Buckhaults K(1), Swack BD(1), Sachs BD(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychological and Brain Sciences, Villanova University, 
Villanova, PA, 19085, USA.
(2)Department of Psychological and Brain Sciences, Villanova University, 
Villanova, PA, 19085, USA. Electronic address: Benjamin.sachs@villanova.edu.

Pregnancy and the post-partum period are associated with substantial 
fluctuations in hormone levels and are frequently associated with significant 
stress. Many individuals also experience affective disturbances during the 
peri‑partum period, including anxiety, the 'baby blues,' and post-partum 
depression. However, the extent to which these affective changes result from 
rapidly altering hormone levels, increased stress, or the combination of both 
remains largely unknown. The current study sought to evaluate the consequences 
of pregnancy-like hormonal changes on behavior and gene expression in c57BL/6 
mice in the absence of stress using a hormone-simulated pregnancy model. Our 
results reveal that animals receiving hormone injections to simulate the high 
levels of estrogen observed in late pregnancy and animals withdrawn from 
estrogen to mimic the rapid decline in this hormone following parturition both 
exhibit increased anxiety-like behavior compared to ovariectomized controls in 
the novel open field test. However, no other significant anxiety- or 
depression-like alterations were observed in either hormone-treated group 
compared to ovariectomized controls. Both hormone administration and estrogen 
withdrawal were shown to induce several significant alterations in gene 
expression in the bed nucleus of the stria terminalis and the paraventricular 
nucleus of the hypothalamus. In contrast to the estrogen withdrawal hypothesis 
of post-partum depression, our results suggest that this method estrogen 
withdrawal following hormone-simulated pregnancy in the absence of stress does 
not induce phenotypes consistent with post-partum depression in c57BL/6 mice. 
However, given that estrogen withdrawal does lead to significant gene expression 
changes in two stress-sensitive brain regions, it remains possible that estrogen 
withdrawal could still contribute to affective dysregulation in the peri-partum 
period by influencing susceptibility to stress. Future research is required to 
evaluate this possibility.

Copyright © 2023. Published by Elsevier Inc.

DOI: 10.1016/j.physbeh.2023.114288
PMID: 37414236 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of Competing Interest None.


37. Behav Brain Res. 2023 Aug 24;452:114559. doi: 10.1016/j.bbr.2023.114559. Epub
 2023 Jun 29.

Inhibition of xCT by sulfasalazine alleviates the depression-like behavior of 
adult male mice subjected to maternal separation stress.

Wang S(1), Liu Y(2), Wu Z(1), Jin Y(1), Zhang T(3), Yang Z(1), Liu C(4).

Author information:
(1)School of Medicine, Nankai University, 94 Weijin Road, Tianjin 300071, China.
(2)Tianjin Key Laboratory of Injuries, Variations and Regeneration of Nervous 
System, Tianjin 300052, China; Key Laboratory of Post-trauma Neuro-repair and 
Regeneration in Central Nervous System, Ministry of Education, Tianjin 300052, 
China; Tianjin Neurological Institute, Tianjin 300052, China; Department of 
Neurology, Tianjin Medical University General Hospital, Tianjin 300052, China.
(3)College of Life Sciences, Nankai University, 94 Weijin Road, Tianjin 300071, 
China.
(4)School of Medicine, Nankai University, 94 Weijin Road, Tianjin 300071, China. 
Electronic address: liuchunhua@nankai.edu.cn.

Maternal separation (MS) can induce emotional disorders. Our previous study 
reported that MS resulted in depression-like behavior. In this study, we aimed 
to explore the role of xCT in depression-like behavior in adult mice subjected 
to MS stress. Pups were divided into the control group, the control 
+ sulfasalazine (SSZ, 75 mg/kg/day, i.p.) group, the MS group, and the MS+SSZ 
group. After MS, all pups were raised until PD60. Then, the depression-like 
behavior was detected by the novelty suppressed feeding (NSF) test, the forced 
swimming test (FST), and the tail suspension test (TST). The synaptic plasticity 
was examined by electrophysiological recordings and molecular biotechnology. The 
data showed that, compared with the control group, the mice in the MS group 
presented depression-like behavior, impairment of long-term potentiation (LTP), 
a reduction in the number of astrocytes, and activation of the microglia. 
Moreover, the expression of xCT was increased in the prefrontal cortex of MS 
mice, the EAAT2 and the Group Ⅱ metabotropic glutamate receptors (mGluR2/3) were 
decreased, and the level of pro-inflammatory factors was increased in the 
prefrontal cortex. After the administration with SSZ, the depression-like 
behavior and the impairment of LTP were alleviated, the number of astrocytes was 
increased, and the microglial activation was inhibited. Moreover, the levels of 
EAAT2 and mGluR2/3 were ameliorated, the over-activation of the microglia was 
mitigated, and the levels of glutamate and pro-inflammatory factors were 
decreased. In conclusion, the inhibition of xCT by SSZ could alleviate 
depression-like behavior partly via modulating the homeostasis of the glutamate 
system and dampening neuroinflammation.

Copyright © 2023 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.bbr.2023.114559
PMID: 37392785 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of Competing Interest The authors 
declare that they have no conflict of interest.


38. J Psychiatr Res. 2023 Aug;164:296-303. doi: 10.1016/j.jpsychires.2023.06.022.
 Epub 2023 Jun 26.

Guanosine treatment prevents lipopolysaccharide-induced depressive-like behavior 
in mice.

Dos Santos RAL(1), de Lima Reis SR(2), Gibbert PC(1), de Arruda CM(1), Doneda 
DL(1), de Matos YAV(1), Viola GG(3), Rios Santos F(1), de Lima E(1), da Silva 
Buss Z(4), Vandresen-Filho S(5).

Author information:
(1)Laboratório de Fisiologia, Departamento de Ciências Básicas em Saúde, 
Faculdade de Medicina, Universidade Federal de Mato Grosso, Boa Esperança, 
78060900, Cuiabá, MT, Brazil.
(2)Laboratório de Investigação, Departamento de Ciências Básicas em Saúde, 
Faculdade de Medicina, Universidade Federal de Mato Grosso, Boa Esperança, 
78060900, Cuiabá, MT, Brazil.
(3)Independent Researcher, Porto Alegre, Brazil.
(4)Laboratório de Pesquisa em Imunologia, Departamento de Análises Clínicas, 
Centro de Ciências da Saúde, Universidade Federal de Santa Catarina, Trindade, 
88040-900, Florianópolis, SC, Brazil.
(5)Laboratório de Fisiologia, Departamento de Ciências Básicas em Saúde, 
Faculdade de Medicina, Universidade Federal de Mato Grosso, Boa Esperança, 
78060900, Cuiabá, MT, Brazil. Electronic address: samuel.filho@ufmt.br.

Guanosine is a purinergic nucleoside that has been shown to have neuroprotective 
effects, mainly through its ability to modulate the glutamatergic system. An 
increase in pro-inflammatory cytokine levels triggers the activation of the 
enzyme indoleamine 2,3-dioxygenase 1 (IDO-1), leading to glutamatergic 
excitotoxicity, which has important roles in the pathophysiology of depression. 
The aim of this study was to investigate the possible antidepressant-like 
effects and underlying mechanisms of action of guanosine against 
lipopolysaccharide (LPS)-induced depression in a mouse model. Mice were orally 
pre-treated with saline (0.9% NaCl), guanosine (8 or 16 mg/kg), or fluoxetine 
(30 mg/kg) for 7 days before LPS (0.5 mg/kg, intraperitoneal) injection. One day 
after LPS injection, mice were subjected to the forced swim test (FST), tail 
suspension test (TST), and open field test (OFT). After the behavioral tests, 
mice were euthanized and the levels of tumor necrosis factor-α (TNF-α), IDO-1, 
glutathione, and malondialdehyde in the hippocampus were measured. Pretreatment 
with guanosine was able to prevent LPS- induced depressive-like behaviors in the 
TST and FST. In the OFT, no locomotor changes were observed with any treatment. 
Both guanosine (8 and 16 mg/kg/day) and fluoxetine treatment prevented the 
LPS-induced increase in TNF-α and IDO expression and lipid peroxidation as well 
as decrease of reduced glutathione levels in the hippocampus. Taken together, 
our findings suggest that guanosine may have neuroprotective effects against 
LPS-induced depressive-like behavior through preventing oxidative stress and the 
expression of IDO-1 and TNF-α in the hippocampus.

Copyright © 2023 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jpsychires.2023.06.022
PMID: 37392719 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
declare the following financial interests/personal relationships which may be 
considered as potential competing interests: Ziliani da Silva Buss reports 
financial support was provided by National Council for Scientific and 
Technological Development.


39. Neurotoxicology. 2023 Sep;98:1-8. doi: 10.1016/j.neuro.2023.06.007. Epub 2023
 Jun 28.

Isochlorogenic acid B alleviates lead-induced anxiety, depression and 
neuroinflammation in mice by the BDNF pathway.

Shi JX(1), Cheng C(1), Ruan HN(1), Li J(1), Liu CM(2).

Author information:
(1)School of Life Science, Jiangsu Normal University, No.101, Shanghai Road, 
Tongshan New Area, 21-1116 Xuzhou City, Jiangsu Province, PR China.
(2)School of Life Science, Jiangsu Normal University, No.101, Shanghai Road, 
Tongshan New Area, 21-1116 Xuzhou City, Jiangsu Province, PR China. Electronic 
address: lcm9009@126.com.

Lead (Pb) can cause neurobehavioral abnormalities. Isochlorogenic acid B (ICAB), 
a dietary flavonoid found in tea, sweet potato, artichoke, propolis and several 
plants, exhibited potential neuroprotective properties. In this study, we aimed 
to investigate the mechanisms of Pb-induced anxiety, depression and 
neuroinflammation, and the neuroprotective effect of ICAB in mouse brains. We 
found that ICAB supplementation significantly improved behavioral abnormalities, 
neuroinflammation and oxidative stress induced by Pb. ICAB attenuated Pb-induced 
anxiety and depression behavior in mice, as indicated by decreasing the duration 
of immobility in tail suspension test and increasing the crossing number, 
rearing number and time in center in open field test. Accordingly, ICAB 
inhibited oxidative stress by decreasing malondialdehyde (MDA) level and 
increasing the antioxidant enzyme activity. ICAB also inhibited Pb-induced 
inflammation in brain, as indicated by decreasing the tumor necrosis 
factor-alpha (TNF-α) and interleukin-6 (IL-6) levels. ICAB increased the 
expression levels of brain derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) and the 
phosphorylation of cAMP-responsive element binding protein (CREB), 
phosphoinositide 3-kinases-protein kinase B (PI3K/AKT). Furthermore, ICAB 
decreased the levels of Toll-like receptor 4 (TLR4), myeloid differentiation 
factor 88 (MyD88), glycogen synthase kinase-3 beta (GSK-3β) and p38. 
Collectively, this study demonstrated that ICAB improved Pb-induced anxiety, 
depression, neuroinflammation and oxidative stress by regulating the BDNF 
signaling pathway.

Copyright © 2023 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.neuro.2023.06.007
PMID: 37385299 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of Competing Interest The authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper.


40. Neurochem Res. 2023 Oct;48(10):3160-3176. doi: 10.1007/s11064-023-03974-0.
Epub  2023 Jun 26.

Intranasal Monophosphoryl Lipid a Administration Ameliorates depression-like 
Behavior in Chronically Stressed Mice Through Stimulation of Microglia.

Zheng M(#)(1), Zhu T(#)(1), Chen B(#)(1), Zhao H(1), Lu X(1), Lu Q(2), Ni M(3), 
Cheng L(3), Han H(1), Ye T(1), Ye Y(4), Liu H(5), Huang C(6).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmacology, School of Pharmacy, Nantong University, #19 Qixiu 
Road, Nantong, 226001, Jiangsu Province, China.
(2)Department of Pharmacy, Nantong Third Hospital Affiliated to Nantong 
University, #60 Middle Qingnian Road, Nantong, 226006, Jiangsu, China.
(3)Department of Pharmacy, Changzhou Geriatric Hospital Affiliated to Soochow 
University, Changzhou No.7 People's Hospital, 288# Yanling East Road, Changzhou, 
213000, Jiangsu, China.
(4)Department of Ultrasound, Affiliated Hospital of Nantong University, #20 Xisi 
Road, Nantong, 226001, Jiangsu, China.
(5)Department of Pharmacy, The First People's Hospital of Yancheng, Yancheng 
First Hospital, Affiliated Hospital of Nanjing University Medical School, #66 
Renmin South Road, Yancheng, 224006, Jiangsu, China.
(6)Department of Pharmacology, School of Pharmacy, Nantong University, #19 Qixiu 
Road, Nantong, 226001, Jiangsu Province, China. huangchao@ntu.edu.cn.
(#)Contributed equally

We and others have reported that systematic stimulation of the central innate 
immune system by a low dose of lipopolysaccharide (LPS) can improve 
depression-like behavior in chronically stressed animals. However, it is unclear 
whether similar stimulation by intranasal administration could improve 
depression-like behavior in animals. We investigated this question using 
monophosphoryl lipid A (MPL), a derivative of LPS that lacks the adverse effects 
of LPS but is still immuno-stimulatory. We found that a single intranasal 
administration of MPL at a dose of 10 or 20 µg/mouse, but not at a dose of 
5 µg/mouse, ameliorated chronic unpredictable stress (CUS)-induced 
depression-like behavior in mice, as evidenced by the decrease in immobility 
time in tail suspension test and forced swimming test and the increase in 
sucrose intake in sucrose preference test. In the time-dependent analysis, the 
antidepressant-like effect of a single intranasal MPL administration 
(20 µg/mouse) was observed 5 and 8 h but not 3 h after drug administration and 
persisted for at least 7 days. Fourteen days after the first intranasal MPL 
administration, a second intranasal MPL administration (20 µg/mouse) still 
showed an antidepressant-like effect. The innate immune response mediated by 
microglia might mediate the antidepressant-like effect of intranasal MPL 
administration, because both inhibition of microglial activation by pretreatment 
with minocycline and depletion of microglia by pretreatment with PLX3397 
prevented the antidepressant-like effect of intranasal MPL administration. These 
results suggest that intranasal administration of MPL can produce significant 
antidepressant-like effects in animals under chronic stress conditions via 
stimulation of microglia.

© 2023. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Science+Business 
Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.

DOI: 10.1007/s11064-023-03974-0
PMID: 37358676 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


41. bioRxiv. 2023 Jun 9:2023.06.08.544088. doi: 10.1101/2023.06.08.544088.
Preprint.

Ketamine rescues anhedonia by cell-type and input specific adaptations in the 
Nucleus Accumbens.

Lucantonio F, Li S, Lu J, Roeglin J, Bontempi L, Shields BC, Zarate CA, Tadross 
MR, Pignatelli M.

Ketamine's role in providing a rapid and sustained antidepressant response, 
particularly for patients unresponsive to conventional treatments, is 
increasingly recognized. A core symptom of depression, anhedonia, or the loss of 
enjoyment or interest in previously pleasurable activities, is known to be 
significantly alleviated by ketamine. While several hypotheses have been 
proposed regarding the mechanisms by which ketamine alleviates anhedonia, the 
specific circuits and synaptic changes responsible for its sustained therapeutic 
effects are not yet understood. Here, we show that the nucleus accumbens (NAc), 
a major hub of the reward circuitry, is essential for ketamine's effect in 
rescuing anhedonia in mice subjected to chronic stress, a critical risk factor 
in the genesis of depression in humans. Specifically, a single exposure to 
ketamine rescues stress-induced decreased strength of excitatory synapses on NAc 
D1 dopamine receptor-expressing medium spiny neurons (D1-MSNs). By using a novel 
cell-specific pharmacology method, we demonstrate that this cell-type specific 
neuroadaptation is necessary for the sustained therapeutic effects of ketamine. 
To test for causal sufficiency, we artificially mimicked ketamine-induced 
increase in excitatory strength on D1-MSNs and found that this recapitulates the 
behavioral amelioration induced by ketamine. Finally, to determine the 
presynaptic origin of the relevant glutamatergic inputs for ketamine-elicited 
synaptic and behavioral effects, we used a combination of opto- and 
chemogenetics. We found that ketamine rescues stress-induced reduction in 
excitatory strength at medial prefrontal cortex and ventral hippocampus inputs 
to NAc D1-MSNs. Chemogenetically preventing ketamine-evoked plasticity at those 
unique inputs to the NAc reveals a ketamine-operated input-specific control of 
hedonic behavior. These results establish that ketamine rescues stress-induced 
anhedonia via cell-type-specific adaptations as well as information integration 
in the NAc via discrete excitatory synapses.

DOI: 10.1101/2023.06.08.544088
PMCID: PMC10274891
PMID: 37333325


42. Basic Clin Neurosci. 2022 Sep-Oct;13(5):647-660. doi:
10.32598/bcn.2022.1477.1.  Epub 2022 Sep 1.

Zanthoxylum Alatum Attenuates Chronic Restraint Stress Adverse Behavioral 
Effects Via the Mitigation of Oxidative Stress and Modulating the Expression of 
Genes Involved in Endoplasmic Reticulum Stress in Mice.

Choudhury Barua C(1), Buragohain L(1), Rahman F(1), Elancheran R(2), Rizavi 
H(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmacology and Toxicology, School of Veterinary Science, 
Assam Agricultural University, Guwahati, India.
(2)Drug Discovery Lab, Life Science Division, Institute of Advanced Study in 
Science and Technology, Guwahati, India.
(3)Department of Psychiatry, Molecular Biology Research Building, University of 
Illinois, Chicago, United State.

INTRODUCTION: The functions of the endoplasmic reticulum (ER) are important, 
particularly in the proteins' synthesis, folding, modification, and transport. 
Based on traditional medicine and our previous studies on Zanthoxylum alatum in 
lipopolysaccharide-induced depressive behavior and scopolamine-induced impaired 
memory, the present study explored the role of hydroalcoholic extract of Z. 
alatum (ZAHA) seeds in reducing the ER stress in mice.
METHODS: The mice were restrained for 28 days in polystyrene tubes. ZAHA (100 
and 200 mg/kg, PO) and imipramine (10 mg/kg, IP) were administered daily, 45 min 
before restraint from day 22 to 28. The mice were assessed by the forced swim 
test. Also, the antioxidant enzyme levels of Superoxide Dismutase (SOD), reduced 
glutathione (GSH), and lipid peroxidation (LPO) were measured in the hippocampus 
of mice. The expression of 78 kDa glucose-regulated protein (GRP78), 94 kDa 
Glucose-Regulated Protein (GRP94), and C/EBPhomologous protein (CHOP) genes was 
assessed by real-time PCR to explore the molecular mechanism.
RESULTS: ZAHA (100 and 200 mg/kg, PO, and imipramine, IP) counteracted the 
stress by significantly reducing the immobility time in the force swimming test, 
receding oxidative stress and lipid peroxidation. The antioxidant enzyme (SOD 
and GSH) levels were elevated in the restraint stress group. Down-regulation of 
genes (GRP78, GRP94, and CHOP) compared to the chronic restraint stress group 
indicated stress modulating properties of the seeds in ER stress. Hesperidin, 
magnoflorine, melicopine, and sesamin, isolated from the active extract, were 
hypothesized to exert the activity.
CONCLUSION: It can be concluded that Z. alatum reverted chronic restraint stress 
through its antioxidant properties and down-regulation of genes involved in ER 
stress.

Copyright© 2022 Iranian Neuroscience Society.

DOI: 10.32598/bcn.2022.1477.1
PMCID: PMC10258593
PMID: 37313027

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of interest The authors declared no 
conflict of interest.


43. Front Mol Neurosci. 2023 May 24;16:1147951. doi: 10.3389/fnmol.2023.1147951. 
eCollection 2023.

The impact of environmental factors during maternal separation on the behaviors 
of adolescent C57BL/6 mice.

Shin S(1), Lee S(1).

Author information:
(1)Developmental Disorders and Rare Disease Research Group, Korea Brain Research 
Institute (KBRI), Daegu, Republic of Korea.

Neonatal maternal separation is a widely used method to construct an early-life 
stress model in rodents. In this method, pups are separated from their mothers 
for several hours every day during the first 2 weeks of life, which results in 
adverse early-life events. It is a known fact that maternal separation can exert 
a significant impact on the behavior and psychological health, such as anxiety 
and depression, in adolescent offspring. However, environmental conditions 
during maternal separation can differ such as the presence of other animals or 
by placing pups in a different dam. To investigate the differential effects of 
various conditions of maternal separation on the behavior of adolescent mice, we 
created the following groups: (1) iMS group: pups were moved to an isolated room 
with no other adult mice in a nearby cage, (2) eDam group: the pups randomly 
exchanged their dams, (3) OF group: pups were shifted to another cage with the 
bedding material containing maternal odor (olfactory stimulation), and (4) MS 
group: pups were shifted to another vivarium. From postnatal day (PND) 2-20 
(i.e., 19 consecutive days), pups were separated from the dam daily for 4 h and 
exposed to various environments (MS, iMS, eDam, and OF) or were left undisturbed 
[control (CON) group]. A series of behavioral assessments were conducted to 
evaluate locomotion, anxiety, recognition, learning, and memory in adolescent 
offspring. The results showed that neonatal maternal separation led to impaired 
recognition memory, motor coordination, and motor skill learning across all 
groups. However, the iMS group exhibited anxiety-like behavior in the elevated 
plus maze test and enhanced the extinction of fear memory in the auditory fear 
conditioning test. The OF and eDam groups displayed partially recovered 
short-term working memory in the Y-maze test but exhibited opposite exploratory 
behaviors. The OF group spent more time in the center, while the eDam group 
spent less time. These findings demonstrated that exposure to different 
environmental conditions during maternal separation causes behavioral 
alterations in adolescent offspring, providing a potential explanation for the 
variation in behavioral phenotypes observed in the early-life stress models.

Copyright © 2023 Shin and Lee.

DOI: 10.3389/fnmol.2023.1147951
PMCID: PMC10244624
PMID: 37293540

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that the research was 
conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial relationships that could 
be construed as a potential conflict of interest.


44. Brain Res. 2023 Aug 1;1812:148419. doi: 10.1016/j.brainres.2023.148419. Epub 
2023 May 20.

A terrified-sound stress causes cognitive impairment in female mice by impairing 
neuronal plasticity.

Gao S(1), Zhang L(2), Wang X(2), Li R(2), Han L(2), Xiong X(3), Jiang Q(2), 
Cheng D(4), Xiao X(2), Li H(5), Yang J(6).

Author information:
(1)Department of Otolaryngology and Head Neck, The First Affiliated Hospital of 
Xi'an Jiaotong University, Xi'an, Shaanxi 710061, PR China; Department of Cell 
Biology and Genetics, School of Basic Medical Sciences, Xi'an Jiaotong 
University Health Science Center, Xi'an 710061, PR China.
(2)Department of Cell Biology and Genetics, School of Basic Medical Sciences, 
Xi'an Jiaotong University Health Science Center, Xi'an 710061, PR China.
(3)Department of Tumor and Immunology in Precision Medicine Institute, Western 
China Science and Technology Innovation Port, Xi'an 710004, PR China.
(4)Department of Neonatology, Shaanxi Provincial People's Hospital, Xi'an 
710068, PR China.
(5)Department of Otolaryngology and Head Neck, The First Affiliated Hospital of 
Xi'an Jiaotong University, Xi'an, Shaanxi 710061, PR China. Electronic address: 
18943945@qq.com.
(6)Department of Cell Biology and Genetics, School of Basic Medical Sciences, 
Xi'an Jiaotong University Health Science Center, Xi'an 710061, PR China; Key 
Laboratory of Environment and Genes Related to Diseases (Xi'an Jiaotong 
University), Ministry of Education of China, Xi'an 710061, PR China. Electronic 
address: yangjuan0112@xjtu.edu.cn.

Stress is an important environmental factor affecting mental health that cannot 
be ignored. Moreover, due to the great physiological differences between males 
and females, the effects of stress may vary by sex. Previous studies have shown 
that terrified-sound stress, meaning exposed mice to the recorded vocalizations 
in response to the electric shock by their kind to induce psychological stress, 
can cause cognitive impairment in male. In the study, we investigated the 
effects of the terrified-sound stress on adult female mice.
METHODS: 32 adults female C57BL/6 mice were randomly divided into control 
(n = 16) and stress group (n = 16). Sucrose preference test (SPT)was carried out 
to evaluate the depressive-like behavior. Using Open field test (OFT) to 
evaluate locomotor and exploratory alterations in mice. Spatial learning and 
memory ability were measured in Morris Water maze test (MWM), Golgi staining and 
western blotting showed dendritic remodeling after stress. In addition, serum 
hormone quantifications were performed by ELISA.
RESULTS: we found the sucrose preference of stress group was significantly 
decreased (p < 0.05) compared with control group; the escape latency of the 
stress group was significantly prolonged (p < 0.05), the total swimming distance 
and the number of target crossings(p < 0.05) were significantly increased 
(p < 0.05) in MWM; Endocrine hormone, Testosterone (T) (p < 0.05), GnRH 
(p < 0.05), FSH and LH levels was decreased; Golgi staining and western blotting 
showed a significant decrease in dendritic arborization, spine density and 
synaptic plasticity related proteins PSD95 and BDNF in the stress group.
CONCLUSION: Terrified-sound stress induced depressive-like behaviors, locomotor 
and exploratory alterations. And impaired cognitive by altering dendritic 
remodeling and the expression of synaptic plasticity-related proteins. However, 
females are resilient to terrified-sound stress from a hormonal point of view.

Copyright © 2023 The Authors. Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.brainres.2023.148419
PMID: 37217110 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of Competing Interest The authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper.


45. Front Microbiol. 2023 May 5;14:1124454. doi: 10.3389/fmicb.2023.1124454. 
eCollection 2023.

Implications of gut microbiota dysbiosis and fecal metabolite changes in 
psychologically stressed mice.

Zhang Y(1), Zhang J(1), Wu J(1), Zhu Q(1), Chen C(2), Li Y(1).

Author information:
(1)School of Basic Medicine, Gannan Medical University, Ganzhou, China.
(2)Department of Stomatology, The First Affiliated Hospital of Gannan Medical 
University, Ganzhou, China.

INTRODUCTION: Psychological stress can induce affective disorders. Gut 
microbiota plays a vital role in emotional function regulation; however, the 
association between gut microbiota and psychological stress is poorly 
understood. We investigated effects of psychological stress on the gut 
microbiome and fecal metabolites and assessed the relationship between affective 
disorder behavior and altered fecal microbiota.
METHODS: A psychological stress model was established in C57BL/6J mice using a 
communication box. Sucrose preference test, forced swim test, and open field 
test helped assess anxiety- and depression-like behaviors. Fecal microbiota 
transplantation (FMT) was conducted using fecal samples from stressed and 
non-stressed mice. Moreover, 16S rRNA gene sequencing and untargeted 
metabolomics were performed.
RESULTS: After stress exposure for 14 days, a significant increase in anxiety- 
and depression-like behaviors was observed. FMT of "affective disorder 
microbiota" from psychologically stressed mice increased stress sensitivity 
relative to FMT of "normal microbiota" from non-stressed mice. 16S rRNA gene 
sequencing revealed decreased abundance of Bacteroides, Alistipes, and 
Lactobacillus and increased abundance of Parasutterella and 
Rikenellaceae_RC9_gut_group in stressed mice; furthermore, stressed mice showed 
differential metabolite profiles. KEGG pathway analysis indicated that 
differential metabolites were chiefly involved in the downregulated pathways of 
α-linolenic acid metabolism, taste transduction, and galactose metabolism. 
Alistipes and Bacteroides were mainly positively correlated and Parasutterella 
was mainly negatively correlated with diverse metabolites.
DISCUSSION: Our findings suggest that gut microbiome dysbiosis contributes to 
affective disorder development in response to psychological stress.

Copyright © 2023 Zhang, Zhang, Wu, Zhu, Chen and Li.

DOI: 10.3389/fmicb.2023.1124454
PMCID: PMC10196128
PMID: 37213506

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that the research was 
conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial relationships that could 
be construed as a potential conflict of interest.


46. Cereb Cortex. 2023 Jul 5;33(14):8858-8875. doi: 10.1093/cercor/bhad166.

P2X7 receptor-mediated depression-like reactions arising in the mouse medial 
prefrontal cortex.

Ren WJ(1)(2), Zhao YF(1)(2), Li J(1)(2), Rubini P(1)(2), Yuan ZQ(3)(4), Tang 
Y(1)(2)(5), Illes P(1)(2)(6).

Author information:
(1)International Joint Research Center on Purinergic Signaling of Sichuan 
Province, Chengdu University of TCM, Chengdu 610075, China.
(2)School of Acupuncture and Tuina, Chengdu University of TCM, Chengdu 610075, 
China.
(3)The Brain Science Center, Beijing Institute of Basic Medical Sciences, 
Beijing 100850, China.
(4)School of Medicine, University of South China, Hengyang 421000, Hunan, China.
(5)Acupuncture and Chronobiology Key Laboratory of Sichuan Province, Chengdu 
University of TCM, Chengdu 610075, China.
(6)Rudolf Boehm Institute for Pharmacology and Toxicology, University of 
Leipzig, Leipzig 04107, Germany.

Major depressive disorder is a frequent and debilitating psychiatric disease. We 
have shown in some of the acute animal models of major depressive disorder (tail 
suspension test and forced swim test) that depression-like behavior can be 
aggravated in mice by the microinjection into the medial prefrontal cortex of 
the P2X7R agonistic adenosine 5'-triphosphate or its structural analog 
dibenzoyl-ATP, and these effects can be reversed by the P2X7R antagonistic 
JNJ-47965567. When measuring tail suspension test, the prolongation of 
immobility time by the P2YR agonist adenosine 5'-[β-thio]diphosphate and the 
reduction of the adenosine 5'-(γ-thio)triphosphate effect by P2Y1R (MRS 2179) or 
P2Y12R (PSB 0739) antagonists, but not by JNJ-47965567, all suggest the 
involvement of P2YRs. In order to elucidate the localization of the modulatory 
P2X7Rs in the brain, we recorded current responses to dibenzoyl-ATP in layer V 
astrocytes and pyramidal neurons of medial prefrontal cortex brain slices by the 
whole-cell patch-clamp procedure; the current amplitudes were not altered in 
preparations taken from tail suspension test or foot shock-treated mice. The 
release of adenosine 5'-triphosphate was decreased by foot shock, although not 
by tail suspension test both in the hippocampus and PFC. In conclusion, we 
suggest, that in the medial prefrontal cortex, acute stressful stimuli cause 
supersensitivity of P2X7Rs facilitating the learned helplessness reaction.

© The Author(s) 2023. Published by Oxford University Press. All rights reserved. 
For permissions, please e-mail: journals.permissions@oup.com.

DOI: 10.1093/cercor/bhad166
PMID: 37183178 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


47. Front Aging Neurosci. 2023 Apr 24;15:1177250. doi:
10.3389/fnagi.2023.1177250.  eCollection 2023.

Long-term environmental enrichment overcomes depression, learning, and memory 
impairment in elderly CD-1 mice with maternal sleep deprivation exposure.

Zhang YM(1), Wei RM(1), Li XY(1), Feng YZ(1), Zhang KX(1), Ge YJ(1), Kong XY(1), 
Liu XC(2), Chen GH(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology (Sleep Disorders), The Affiliated Chaohu Hospital of 
Anhui Medical University, Hefei, Anhui, China.
(2)Department of Neurology, The Second People's Hospital of Hefei, Hefei 
Hospital Affiliated to Anhui Medical University, Hefei, Anhui, China.

Early-life stress disrupts central nervous system development and increases the 
risk of neuropsychiatric disorder in offspring based on rodent studies. Maternal 
sleep deprivation (MSD) in rodents has also been associated with depression and 
cognitive decline in adult offspring. However, it is not known whether these 
issues persist into old age. Environmental enrichment is a non-pharmacological 
intervention with proven benefits in improving depression and cognitive 
impairment; however, it is unclear whether these benefits hold for aging mice 
following MSD exposure. The aim of this study was to explore the effects of MSD 
on depression and cognition in elderly offspring CD-1 mice and to determine 
whether long-term environmental enrichment could alleviate these effects by 
improving neuroinflammation and synaptic plasticity. The offspring mice 
subjected to MSD were randomly assigned to either a standard environment or an 
enriched environment. At 18 months of age, the forced swimming and tail 
suspension tests were used to evaluated depression-like behaviors, and the 
Morris water maze test was used to evaluate cognitive function. The expression 
levels of hippocampal proinflammatory cytokines and synaptic 
plasticity-associated proteins were also measured. MSD increased depression-like 
behaviors and impaired cognition function in aging CD-1 offspring mice. These 
effects were accompanied by upregulated interleukin (IL)-1β, IL-6, and tumor 
necrosis factor-α expression, and downregulated brain-derived neurotrophic 
factor, tyrosine kinase receptor B, postsynaptic density-95, and synaptophysin 
expression in the hippocampus. All of these changes were reversed by long-term 
exposure to an enriched environment. These findings suggest that MSD exerts 
long-term effects on the behaviors of offspring in mice, leading to depression 
and cognitive impairment in older age. Importantly, long-term environmental 
enrichment could counteract the behavior difficulties induced by MSD through 
improving hippocampal proinflammatory cytokines and synaptic 
plasticity-associated proteins.

Copyright © 2023 Zhang, Wei, Li, Feng, Zhang, Ge, Kong, Liu and Chen.

DOI: 10.3389/fnagi.2023.1177250
PMCID: PMC10164971
PMID: 37168717

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that the research was 
conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial relationships that could 
be construed as a potential conflict of interest.The reviewer FW declared a 
shared parent affiliation with the authors to the handling editor at the time of 
review.


48. Phytomedicine. 2023 Jul 25;116:154852. doi: 10.1016/j.phymed.2023.154852.
Epub  2023 May 1.

Pulsatilla chinensis saponins ameliorated murine depression by inhibiting 
intestinal inflammation mediated IDO1 overexpression and rebalancing tryptophan 
metabolism.

Wang T(1), Song Y(1), Ai Z(1), Liu Y(1), Li H(1), Xu W(1), Chen L(1), Zhu G(1), 
Yang M(2), Su D(3).

Author information:
(1)Key Laboratory of Evaluation of Traditional Chinese Medicine Efficacy 
(Prevention and Treatment of Brain Diseases with Mental Disorders), Key 
Laboratory of Depression Animal Model Based on TCM Syndrome, Jiangxi 
Administration of Traditional Chinese Medicine, Key Laboratory of TCM for 
Prevention and Treatment of Brain Diseases with Cognitive Dysfunction, Jiangxi 
Province, Jiangxi University of Chinese Medicine, 1688 Meiling Road, Nanchang 
330006, China.
(2)Key Laboratory of Evaluation of Traditional Chinese Medicine Efficacy 
(Prevention and Treatment of Brain Diseases with Mental Disorders), Key 
Laboratory of Depression Animal Model Based on TCM Syndrome, Jiangxi 
Administration of Traditional Chinese Medicine, Key Laboratory of TCM for 
Prevention and Treatment of Brain Diseases with Cognitive Dysfunction, Jiangxi 
Province, Jiangxi University of Chinese Medicine, 1688 Meiling Road, Nanchang 
330006, China; Jiangxi Guxiang Jinyun Comprehensive Health Industry Co., Ltd., 
Nanchang, China.
(3)Key Laboratory of Evaluation of Traditional Chinese Medicine Efficacy 
(Prevention and Treatment of Brain Diseases with Mental Disorders), Key 
Laboratory of Depression Animal Model Based on TCM Syndrome, Jiangxi 
Administration of Traditional Chinese Medicine, Key Laboratory of TCM for 
Prevention and Treatment of Brain Diseases with Cognitive Dysfunction, Jiangxi 
Province, Jiangxi University of Chinese Medicine, 1688 Meiling Road, Nanchang 
330006, China. Electronic address: sud94@aliyun.com.

BACKGROUND: Current antidepressant therapy remains unsatisfactory due to the 
complex pathogenesis. Emerging evidence suggested that depression is associated 
with inflammatory bowel disease (IBD), intestinal inflammation is an 
increasingly accepted factor that influences depression, but the mechanism is 
unclear.
PURPOSE: In the current study, we determined whether Pulsatilla chinensis 
saponins (PRS), a phytomedicine from Pulsatilla chinensis (Bunge) Regel with 
excellent anti-IBD effect, could improve the depression. Furthermore, we 
investigated the mechanisms to explore the relationship between IBD and 
depression and provide new source for the urgent development of antidepressants 
from phytomedicine.
METHODS: The antidepressant activity of PRS was accessed by behavioral test and 
multichannel technology in depression mice induced by Chronic Unpredictable Mild 
Stress (CUMS). 16S rDNA-based microbiota and RNA-seq in colon was used to 
explore potential intestinal metabolism affected by PRS. To illustrate the 
underlying mechanisms of anti-depression effect of PRS, targeted metabolomics, 
ELISA assay, immunofluorescence staining, Western Blot, and qPCR were carried 
out.
RESULTS: The results clarified that CUMS induced depression with tryptophan 
(Trp) metabolism and intestinal inflammation. PRS effectively suppressed the 
depression and acted as a regulator of Trp/kynurenine (Kyn) metabolic and 
intestinal inflammation confirmed by analysis of microflora and colon RNA. 
Meanwhile PRS reduced interferon gamma (IFN-γ), inhibited JAK1-STAT1 
phosphorylation, decreased IDO1 levels to protect against the overactivity of 
Trp/kyn path, suggesting that IFN-γ activated IDO1 probably a significant target 
for PRS to exert anti-depression effects. To further confirm the mechanism, this 
research expressed that PRS improved IDO1 activity and depressive behavior in 
mice with IFN-γ-induced depression. Furthermore, the therapeutic effect of 
1-methyl-tryptophan (1-MT) well known as an IDO1 inhibitor in depression and 
clinically used anti-UC drug Mesalazine (MS) was demonstrated to confirm the 
potential mechanism.
CONCLUSION: The study is the first to reveal the antidepressant effect of PRS 
and further demonstrate its potential therapeutic targets. In addition, it also 
clarifies that the Trp/kyn pathway is the crosstalk between IBD and depression 
and provides new choice for depression treatment. And it also provides an 
important basis for the follow-up development and exploration of anti-intestinal 
antidepressants.

Copyright © 2023. Published by Elsevier GmbH.

DOI: 10.1016/j.phymed.2023.154852
PMID: 37167824 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of Competing Interest The authors 
have declared that no competing interest exists.


49. J Affect Disord. 2023 Aug 1;334:278-292. doi: 10.1016/j.jad.2023.04.117. Epub
 2023 May 6.

Eucommiae cortex polysaccharides attenuate gut microbiota dysbiosis and 
neuroinflammation in mice exposed to chronic unpredictable mild stress: 
Beneficial in ameliorating depressive-like behaviors.

Wang M(1), Sun P(1), Li Z(1), Li J(1), Lv X(2), Chen S(1), Zhu X(3), Chai X(4), 
Zhao S(5).

Author information:
(1)College of Veterinary Medicine, Northwest A&F University, Yangling, China.
(2)College of Food Science and Engineering, Northwest A&F University, Yangling, 
China.
(3)College of Veterinary Medicine, Northwest A&F University, Yangling, China. 
Electronic address: xyzhu0922@nwsuaf.edu.cn.
(4)College of Basic Medicine, Xi'an Medical University, Xi'an, China. Electronic 
address: xchai@xiyi.edu.cn.
(5)College of Veterinary Medicine, Northwest A&F University, Yangling, China. 
Electronic address: zhaoshanting@nwsuaf.edu.cn.

Erratum in
    J Affect Disord. 2023 Oct 15;339:1003-1004.

BACKGROUND: Chronic stress alters gut microbiota composition, as well as induces 
inflammatory responses and behavioral deficits. Eucommiae cortex polysaccharides 
(EPs) have been reported to remodel gut microbiota and ameliorate obesogenic 
diet-induced systemic low-grade inflammation, but their role in stress-induced 
behavioral and physiological changes is poorly understood.
METHODS: Male Institute of Cancer Research (ICR) mice were exposed to chronic 
unpredictable stress (CUMS) for 4 weeks and then supplemented with EPs at a dose 
of 400 mg/kg once per day for 2 weeks. Behavioral test-specific antidepressant 
and anxiolytic effects of EPs were assessed in FST, TST, EPM, and OFT. 
Microbiota composition and inflammation were detected using 16S ribosomal RNA 
(rRNA) gene sequencing, quantitative RT-PCR, western blot, and 
immunofluorescence.
RESULTS: We found that EPs ameliorated gut dysbiosis caused by CUMS, as 
evidenced by increasing the abundance of Lactobacillaceae and suppressing the 
expansion of the Proteobacteria, thereby mitigating intestinal inflammation and 
barrier derangement. Importantly, EPs reduced the release of bacterial-derived 
lipopolysaccharides (LPS, endotoxin) and inhibited the microglia-mediated 
TLR4/NFκB/MAPK signaling pathway, thereby attenuating the pro-inflammatory 
response in the hippocampus. These contributed to restoring the rhythm of 
hippocampal neurogenesis and alleviating behavioral abnormalities in CUMS mice. 
Correlation analysis showed that the perturbed-gut microbiota was strongly 
correlated with behavioral abnormalities and neuroinflammation.
LIMITATIONS: This study did not clarify the causal relationship between EPs 
remodeling the gut microbiota and improved behavior in CUMS mice.
CONCLUSIONS: EPs exert ameliorative effects on CUMS-induced neuroinflammation 
and depression-like symptoms, which may be strongly related to their beneficial 
effects on gut microbial composition.

Copyright © 2023. Published by Elsevier B.V.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jad.2023.04.117
PMID: 37156274 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper.


50. J Nutr Sci Vitaminol (Tokyo). 2023;69(2):145-149. doi: 10.3177/jnsv.69.145.

Comparing Effects of Caffeine and Theobromine on Adrenal Hypertrophy and Social 
Behavior in Psychosocial Stressed Mice.

Nomura S(1), Monobe M(1).

Author information:
(1)Tea Research Division, Institute of Fruit Tree and Tea Science, National 
Agriculture and Food Research Organization (NARO).

Management of chronic psychological stress is important for the prevention of 
depression, mood disorders, and other related ailments. Recent studies have 
shown that dietary methylxanthines, such as caffeine and theobromine, exert 
preventive effects on these ailments. Although the psychological effects of 
caffeine are well-investigated, those of theobromine are not fully understood. 
In the present study, the effects of theobromine were evaluated and compared 
with those of caffeine using a mouse stress model based on confrontational 
housing. Male mice were kept separately in partition cages (two per cage) to 
allow the establishment of territories for confrontational housing. The mice 
were administered caffeine or theobromine daily via oral gavage (6 mg/kg). 
Thereafter, the partition was removed to induce confrontational stress. We found 
that theobromine, but not caffeine, suppressed adrenal hypertrophy caused by 
confrontational stress. Moreover, sociability tests revealed that caffeine and 
theobromine had different effects on the behavioral changes caused by 
confrontational stress. Our results suggest that orally administered theobromine 
suppresses adrenal hypertrophy caused by psychosocial stress and induces 
different behavioral changes than dose caffeine.

DOI: 10.3177/jnsv.69.145
PMID: 37121724 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


51. Complex Psychiatry. 2023 Feb 3;9(1-4):57-69. doi: 10.1159/000529534.
eCollection  2023 Jan-Dec.

Prophylactic Efficacy of Riluzole against Anxiety- and Depressive-Like Behaviors 
in Two Rodent Stress Models.

Bansal Y(1), Fee C(1)(2), Misquitta KA(1)(2), Codeluppi SA(1)(2), Sibille 
E(1)(2)(3), Berman RM(4), Coric V(4), Sanacora G(5), Banasr M(1)(2)(3)(5).

Author information:
(1)Campbell Family Mental Health Research Institute, Centre for Addiction and 
Mental Health, Toronto, ON, Canada.
(2)Department of Pharmacology and Toxicology, University of Toronto, Toronto, 
ON, Canada.
(3)Department of Psychiatry, University of Toronto, Toronto, ON, Canada.
(4)Biohaven Pharmaceuticals, New Haven, CT, USA.
(5)Department of Psychiatry, Yale University School of Medicine, New Haven, CT, 
USA.

INTRODUCTION: Chronic stress-related illnesses such as major depressive disorder 
and post-traumatic stress disorder share symptomatology, including anxiety, 
anhedonia, and helplessness. Across disorders, neurotoxic dysregulated glutamate 
(Glu) signaling may underlie symptom emergence. Current first-line 
antidepressant drugs, which do not directly target Glu signaling, fail to 
provide adequate benefit for many patients and are associated with high relapse 
rates. Riluzole modulates glutamatergic neurotransmission by increasing 
metabolic cycling and modulating signal transduction. Clinical studies exploring 
riluzole's efficacy in stress-related disorders have provided varied results. 
However, the utility of riluzole for treating specific symptom dimensions or as 
a prophylactic treatment has not been comprehensively assessed.
METHODS: We investigated whether chronic prophylactic riluzole (∼12-15 mg/kg/day 
p.o.) could prevent the emergence of behavioral deficits induced by 
unpredictable chronic mild stress (UCMS) in mice. We assessed (i) anxiety-like 
behavior using the elevated-plus maze, open-field test, and novelty-suppressed 
feeding, (ii) mixed anxiety/anhedonia-like behavior in the novelty-induced 
hypophagia test, and (iii) anhedonia-like behavior using the sucrose consumption 
test. Z-scoring summarized changes across tests measuring similar dimensions. In 
a separate learned helplessness (LH) cohort, we investigated whether chronic 
prophylactic riluzole treatment could block the development of helplessness-like 
behavior.
RESULTS: UCMS induced an elevation in anhedonia-like behavior and overall 
behavioral emotionality that was blocked by prophylactic riluzole. In the LH 
cohort, prophylactic riluzole blocked the development of helplessness-like 
behavior.
DISCUSSION/CONCLUSION: This study supports the utility of riluzole as a 
prophylactic medication for preventing anhedonia and helplessness symptoms 
associated with stress-related disorders.

© 2023 The Author(s). Published by S. Karger AG, Basel.

DOI: 10.1159/000529534
PMCID: PMC10123365
PMID: 37101541

Conflict of interest statement: G.S. has served as consultant to Allergan, 
Alkermes, Aptiny, Axsome Therapeutics, Biogen, Biohaven Pharmaceuticals, 
Boehringer Ingelheim International GmbH, Bristol-Myers Squibb, Cowen, EMA 
Wellness, Engrail Therapeutics, Clexio, Denovo Biopharma, Gilgamesh, Hoffman 
La-Roche, Intra-Cellular Therapies, Janssen, Levo, Lundbeck, Merck, Navitor 
Pharmaceuticals, Neurocrine, Novartis, Noven Pharmaceuticals, Otsuka, Perception 
Neuroscience, Praxis Therapeutics, Sage Pharmaceuticals, Servier 
Pharmaceuticals, Seelos Pharmaceuticals, Taisho Pharmaceuticals, Teva, Valeant, 
Vistagen Therapeutics, and XW Laboratories and received research contracts from 
AstraZeneca, Bristol-Myers Squibb, Eli Lilly, Johnson & Johnson, Merck, Naurex, 
and the Usona Institute over the past 36 months. Dr. Sanacora holds equity in 
Biohaven Pharmaceuticals and is a co-inventor on a US patent (#8778979) held by 
Yale University and a co-inventor on US Provisional Patent Application No. 
047162-7177P1 (00754) filed on August 20, 2018, by Yale University Office of 
Cooperative Research. Yale University has a financial relationship with Janssen 
Pharmaceuticals and may in the future receive financial benefits from this 
relationship. The University has put multiple measures in place to mitigate this 
institutional conflict of interest. Questions about the details of these 
measures should be directed to Yale University’s Conflict of Interest office. 
R.M.B. and V.C. are employees and stockholders of Biohaven Pharmaceuticals.


52. Front Cell Neurosci. 2023 Apr 5;17:1135227. doi: 10.3389/fncel.2023.1135227. 
eCollection 2023.

Electroacupuncture treatment ameliorates depressive-like behavior and cognitive 
dysfunction via CB1R dependent mitochondria biogenesis after experimental global 
cerebral ischemic stroke.

Hu G(1), Zhou C(2), Wang J(3), Ma X(2), Ma H(2), Yu H(2), Peng Z(2), Huang J(4), 
Cai M(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychological Medicine, 958th Hospital, Chongqing, China.
(2)Department of Psychiatry, Xijing Hospital, The Fourth Military Medical 
University, Xi'an, Shaanxi, China.
(3)Department of Anesthesiology & Perioperative Medicine, Xijing Hospital, The 
Fourth Military Medical University, Xi'an, Shaanxi, China.
(4)Department of Health Management, Tangdu Hospital, The Fourth Military Medical 
University, Xi'an, Shaanxi, China.

INTRODUCTION: This study aimed to identify the effect of electroacupuncture (EA) 
treatment on post-stroke depression (PSD) and explore whether cannabinoid 
receptor 1 (CB1R)-mediated mitochondrial biogenesis accounts for the treatment 
effect of EA.
METHODS: The PSD mouse model was induced by a consecutive 14-day chronic 
unpredictable stress operation after 7 days of recovery from the bilateral 
common carotid artery occlusion surgery. Either EA treatment or sham stimulation 
was performed for 14 consecutive days from Day 7 after the BCCAO operation. 
Subjects' PSD-like behaviors were tested via open field test, sucrose preference 
test, novelty suppressed feeding test, tail suspension test, and forced swim 
test, and subjects' cognitive function was examined using Y-maze and novelty 
object recognition test. In addition, the levels of CB1R, mitochondrial 
biogenesis-related proteins (nuclear transcription factor 1, NRF1; mitochondrial 
transcription factor A, TFAM), proteins related to mitochondrial function 
(Cytochrome C, Cyto C; AIF, COX IV), and mitochondrial DNA were measured. To 
elucidate the role of CB1R in EA treatment, CB1R antagonists AM251 and 
CB1R-shRNA were given to mice before EA treatment. Likewise, subjects' 
depressive-like behaviors, cognitive function, mitochondrial function, and 
mitochondrial biogenesis were examined after the PSD procedure.
RESULTS: It has been showed that EA successfully ameliorated depressive-like 
behaviors, improved cognitive dysfunctions, and upregulated CB1R, NRF1 and TFAM 
expressions. However, the supplementation of AM251 and CB1R-shRNA blocked the 
antidepressant-like effects generated by EA, and EA failed to improve cognitive 
dysfunction, upregulate CB1R protein expression, and increase mitochondrial 
function and biogenesis.
CONCLUSION: Altogether, these results indicated that EA ameliorated PSD-like 
behaviors in mice, improved cognitive dysfunctions after PSD, and promoted 
mitochondrial biogenesis by activating CB1R, a novel mechanism underlying EA's 
antidepressant-like effects in treating PSD.

Copyright © 2023 Hu, Zhou, Wang, Ma, Ma, Yu, Peng, Huang and Cai.

DOI: 10.3389/fncel.2023.1135227
PMCID: PMC10113634
PMID: 37091920

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that the research was 
conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial relationships that could 
be construed as a potential conflict of interest.


53. Front Pharmacol. 2023 Mar 23;14:1135497. doi: 10.3389/fphar.2023.1135497. 
eCollection 2023.

Fraxetin attenuates disrupted behavioral and central neurochemical activity in a 
model of chronic unpredictable stress.

Ahmed Z(1), Tokhi A(1), Arif M(1), Rehman NU(1)(1), Sheibani V(2), Rauf K(1), 
Sewell RDE(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmacy, COMSATS University Islamabad, Abbottabad campus, 
Abbottabad, Pakistan.
(2)Neuroscience Research Center, Institute of Neuropharmacology, Kerman 
University of MedicalSciences, Kerman, Iran.
(3)Cardiff School of Pharmacy and Pharmaceutical Sciences, Cardiff University, 
Cardiff, United Kingdom.

Purpose: Chronic unpredictable stress (CUS) induces long-term neuronal and 
synaptic plasticity with a neurohormonal disbalance leading to the development 
of co-existing anxiety, depression, and cognitive decline. The side effects and 
delayed onset of current clinically used antidepressants has prompted a quest 
for antidepressants with minimum drawbacks. Fraxetin is a natural coumarin 
derivative with documented antioxidant and neuroprotective activity though its 
effects on stress are unknown. This study therefore aimed to investigate any 
possible acute effect of fraxetin in behavioral tests including a CUS paradigm 
in correlation with brain regional neurochemical changes. Methods: Mice were 
subjected to a series of mild stressors for 14 days to induce CUS. Furthermore, 
behavioral performance in the open field test, forced swim test (FST), Y-maze 
and elevated plus-maze were evaluated. Postmortem frontal cortical, hippocampal 
and striatal tissues were analyzed via high-performance liquid chromatography 
(HPLC) for neurochemical changes. Result: Acute administration of fraxetin 
(20-60 mg/kg, orally) decreased depression-like behavior in the FST and 
behavioral anxiety in both the open field test and elevated plus-maze. Memory 
deficits induced during the CUS paradigm were markedly improved as reflected by 
enhanced Y maze performance. Concurrent biochemical and neurochemical analyses 
revealed that only the two higher fraxetin doses decreased elevated serum 
corticosterone levels while diminished serotonin levels in the frontal cortex, 
striatum and hippocampus were reversed, though noradrenaline was only raised in 
the striatum. Concomitantly, dopamine levels were restored by fraxetin at the 
highest dose exclusively in the frontal cortex. Conclusion: Acute treatment with 
fraxetin attenuated CUS-induced behavioral deficits, ameliorated the increased 
corticosterone level and restored altered regional neurotransmitter levels and 
this may indicate a potential application of fraxetin in the management of 
anxiety and depression modeled by CUS. However, further studies are warranted 
regarding the chronic effects of fraxetin behaviorally and neurochemically.

Copyright © 2023 Ahmed, Tokhi, Arif, Rehman, Sheibani, Rauf and Sewell.

DOI: 10.3389/fphar.2023.1135497
PMCID: PMC10078985
PMID: 37033640

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that the research was 
conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial relationships that could 
be construed as a potential conflict of interest.


54. Int Immunopharmacol. 2023 Apr;117:109908. doi: 10.1016/j.intimp.2023.109908. 
Epub 2023 Mar 10.

Antcin K targets NLRP3 to suppress neuroinflammation and improve the 
neurological behaviors of mice with depression.

Han C(1), Pei H(2), Shen H(1), Zhai L(1), Yang Y(1), Li W(3), Wang J(4).

Author information:
(1)The Second Affiliated Hospital of Jiaxing University, China.
(2)Jilin Agricultural University, Changchun 130118, China.
(3)The Second Affiliated Hospital of Jiaxing University, China. Electronic 
address: liwy_82@163.com.
(4)The Second Affiliated Hospital of Jiaxing University, China. Electronic 
address: 691513770@qq.com.

AIM: We aimed to explored the role of Antcin K in resisting depression and its 
targets.
METHODS: LPS/IFN-γwas used to induce the activation of microglial BV2 cells. 
Following Antcin K pretreatment, the proportion of M1 cells was determined using 
flow cytometry (FCM), the expression of cytokines was measured through ELISA, 
and that of CDb and NLRP3 was analyzed by cell fluorescence staining. The 
protein levels were detected by Western-blot assay. After NLRP3 was knocked down 
in BV2 cells (BV2-nlrp3-/-), the M1 polarization level was detected with Antcin 
K treatment. The targeted binding relation of Antcin K with NLRP3 was confirmed 
through small molecule-protein docking and co-immunoprecipitation assay. The 
chronic unpredictable stress model (CUMS) was constructed to mimic the 
depression mice. After the administration of Antcin K, the neurological behavior 
of CUMS mice were detected by open-field test (OFT), elevated plus maze, forced 
swimming test (FST), and tail suspension test (TST). In addition, the expression 
of CD11b and IBA-1 was detected through histochemical staining, and the tissue 
pathological changes were detected by H&E staining.
RESULTS: Antcin K suppressed the M1 polarization of BV2 cells and reduced the 
expression of inflammatory factors. Meanwhile, NLRP3 exhibited targeted binding 
relation with Antcin K, and Antcin K lost its effect after NLRP3 knockdown. In 
the CUMS mouse model, Antcin K improved the depression status and neurological 
behaviors in mice, and decreased central neuroinflammation and microglial cell 
polarization.
CONCLUSION: Antcin K targets NLRP3 to suppress microglial cell polarization, 
alleviate central inflammation in mice and improve their neurological behaviors.

Copyright © 2023. Published by Elsevier B.V.

DOI: 10.1016/j.intimp.2023.109908
PMID: 37012885 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of Competing Interest The authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper.


55. Curr Biol. 2023 Apr 24;33(8):1535-1549.e5. doi: 10.1016/j.cub.2023.03.020.
Epub  2023 Mar 31.

Female dominance hierarchies influence responses to psychosocial stressors.

Smith-Osborne L(1), Duong A(2), Resendez A(3), Palme R(4), Fadok JP(5).

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychology, Tulane University, New Orleans, LA 70118, USA; 
Tulane National Primate Research Center, Covington, LA 70433, USA. Electronic 
address: lsmithosborne@tulane.edu.
(2)Department of Psychology, Tulane University, New Orleans, LA 70118, USA; 
Neuroscience Program, Tulane University, New Orleans, LA 70118, USA.
(3)Department of Psychology, Tulane University, New Orleans, LA 70118, USA; 
Tulane Brain Institute, Tulane University, New Orleans, LA 70118, USA.
(4)Department of Biomedical Sciences, University of Veterinary Medicine, 
Veterinärplatz 1, 1210 Vienna, Austria.
(5)Department of Psychology, Tulane University, New Orleans, LA 70118, USA; 
Tulane Brain Institute, Tulane University, New Orleans, LA 70118, USA. 
Electronic address: jfadok@tulane.edu.

Social species form dominance hierarchies to ensure survival and promote 
reproductive success. Traditionally studied in males, rodent hierarchies are 
considered despotic, and dominant social rank results from a history of winning 
agonistic encounters. By contrast, female hierarchies are thought to be less 
despotic, and rank is conferred by intrinsic traits. Both social buffering and 
elevated social status confer resilience to depression, anxiety, and other 
consequences of chronic stress. Here, we investigate whether female social 
hierarchies and individual traits related to social rank likewise influence 
stress resilience. We observe the formation of dyadic female hierarchies under 
varying conditions of ambient light and circadian phase and subject mice to two 
forms of chronic psychosocial stress: social isolation or social instability. We 
find that stable female hierarchies emerge rapidly in dyads. Individual 
behavioral and endocrinological traits are characteristic of rank, some of which 
are circadian phase dependent. Further, female social rank is predicted by 
behavior and stress status prior to social introduction. Other behavioral 
characteristics suggest that rank is motivation-based, indicating that female 
rank identity serves an evolutionarily relevant purpose. Rank is associated with 
alterations in behavior in response to social instability stress and prolonged 
social isolation, but the different forms of stress produce disparate rank 
responses in endocrine status. Histological examination of c-Fos protein 
expression identified brain regions that respond to social novelty or social 
reunion following chronic isolation in a rank-specific manner. Collectively, 
female rank is linked to neurobiology, and hierarchies exert context-specific 
influence upon stress outcomes.

Copyright © 2023 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.cub.2023.03.020
PMCID: PMC10321215
PMID: 37003262 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of interests The authors declare no 
competing interests.


56. J Integr Neurosci. 2023 Feb 10;22(2):28. doi: 10.31083/j.jin2202028.

Electroacupuncture Improves Depression-Like Behavior by Regulating the Abundance 
of Lactobacillus and Staphylococci in Mice.

Qiu X(1), Li Z(1), Huang S(1), Cai X(1), Qu S(1), Zheng Z(2), Zhang J(1), Wen 
F(1), Fu Z(1), Huang Y(1), Zhang Z(1).

Author information:
(1)School of Traditional Chinese Medicine, Southern Medical University, 510515 
Guangzhou, Guangdong, China.
(2)Nanfang Hospital, Southern Medical University, 510515 Guangzhou, Guangdong, 
China.

BACKGROUND: Growing evidence suggests that gut microbiota can affect 
depression-like behavior, and electroacupuncture (EA) can regulate the 
composition and abundance of gut microbiota. At the same time, not a lot of 
research has been done on how EA affects gut microbiota to depression-like 
behavior. The objective of this study was to study the associated mechanisms by 
which EA exerts antidepressant effects by modulating gut microbiota.
METHODS: Twenty-four C57BL/6 male mice were randomly divided into three groups, 
one group (n = 8) was the normal control group (NC). And the other two groups 
was chronic unpredictable mild stress for modeling + electroacupuncture group 
(CUMS + EA) (n = 8) and chronic unpredictable mild stress for modeling group 
(CUMS) (n = 8). Both CUMS and EA groups were subjected to 28 days of CUMS, but 
only the EA group received an additional 14 days of EA procedure. Behavior tests 
were used to determine the antidepressant effect of EA. Sequencing of the 16S 
ribosomal RNA (rRNA) gene was applied to examine alterations in the intestinal 
microbiome between groups.
RESULTS: The findings were compared to those of the NC group, the sucrose 
preference rate and the total distance of Open Field Test (OFT) in CUMS group 
decreased, the abundance of Lactobacillus decreased, while the abundance of 
staphylococci increased. After the intervention of EA, the sucrose preference 
index and the total distance of OFT increased, the abundance of Lactobacillus 
increased, while the abundance of staphylococci decreased.
CONCLUSIONS: These findings indicated EA may play an antidepressant effect by 
adjusting the abundance of Lactobacillus and staphylococci.

© 2023 The Author(s). Published by IMR Press.

DOI: 10.31083/j.jin2202028
PMID: 36992578 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


57. Sichuan Da Xue Xue Bao Yi Xue Ban. 2023 Mar;54(2):316-321. doi: 
10.12182/20230360205.

[Sequencing Analysis of miRNAs in Brain-Derived Exosomes of Adolescent Mice With 
Depression-Like Behaviors].

[Article in Chinese]

Zeng Q(1), Liao J(1), Ran LY(1), Shi L(2), Chen YJ(2), Zhang CY(2), Xiang JJ(2), 
Hong S(2), Kuang L(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychiatry, University-Town Hospital of Chongqing Medical 
University, Chongqing 401331, China.
(2)Department of Psychiatry,The First Affiliated Hospital of Chongqing Medical 
University, Chongqing 400016, China.

OBJECTIVE: To explore the differential expression of microRNAs (miRNAs) in 
brain-derived exosomes (BDEs) of adolescent mice with depression-like behavior.
METHODS: The experimental group consisted of susceptible adolescent mice exposed 
to chronic social defeat stress (CSDS), and sucrose preference test (SPT) and 
open field test (OFT) were performed to evaluate their depression-like 
behaviors. BDEs were extracted by ultracentrifugation (UC). The morphology, 
particle size, and surface marker proteins of BDEs were examined by transmission 
electron microscopy, nano-flow cytometry and Western blot. The expression of 
miRNA in BDEs was evaluated by high-throughput RNA sequencing. GO enrichment 
analysis and KEGG pathway enrichment analysis were carried out based on 
bioinformatics.
RESULTS: The particle size of BDEs ranged between 50 to 100 nm and they 
displayed a typical disc-shaped vesicle structure. TSG101 and syntenin, the 
exosome-positive proteins, were detected. In the BDEs of mice with 
depression-like behaviors induced by CSDS, 13 miRNAs were significantly 
upregulated and 4 miRNAs were significantly downregulated. Go and KEGG analysis 
showed that differentially expressed miRNAs were significantly enriched in 
PI3K-Akt signaling pathway, axonal guidance, and hypoxic response.
CONCLUSION: It was found in this study that exosomal miRNAs in brain tissue 
might be involved in such biological processes as insulin resistance, 
neuroplasticity, and hypoxic response, thereby regulating brain functions and 
causing depression-like behaviors.

目的: 探索青春期抑郁样行为小鼠脑组织外泌体微RNA（microRNA, miRNA）差异表达情况。
方法: 实验组为慢性社交挫败实验应激模型（chronic social defeat stress, 
CSDS）敏感型青春期小鼠，采用糖水偏好和旷场实验评估抑郁样行为。使用超速离心法提取脑组织外泌体，经透射电子显微镜、纳米流式检测技术以及蛋白质印记对外泌体形态、粒径大小和表面标志蛋白进行鉴定。采用高通量测序技术评估实验组和对照组小鼠脑组织外泌体miRNAs表达，基于生物信息学进行GO和KEGG通路富集分析。
结果: 外泌体颗粒大小在50～100 
nm之间、呈典型圆盘状的囊泡结构，检测到外泌体阳性蛋白TSG101和Syntenin。CSDS诱导抑郁样行为的青春期小鼠脑组织外泌体中有13个miRNA显著上调，4个miRNA显著下调，差异表达的miRNA在PI3K-Akt信号通路、轴突导向以及缺氧反应等显著富集。
结论: 本研究发现脑组织外泌体miRNA可能参与胰岛素抵抗、神经可塑性、缺氧反应等生物过程调控大脑功能，从而产生抑郁样行为。

Copyright© by Editorial Board of Journal of Sichuan University (Medical 
Sciences).

DOI: 10.12182/20230360205
PMCID: PMC10409158
PMID: 36949692 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: 利益冲突　所有作者均声明不存在利益冲突


58. Xi Bao Yu Fen Zi Mian Yi Xue Za Zhi. 2023 Mar;39(3):242-248.

[Knockout of CD226 alleviates depression-like behavior induced by chronic 
restraint stress in mice by modulating the ratio of immune cells in spleen and 
intestine].

[Article in Chinese]

Wang T(1), Yang L(1), Ma J(2), Wang Y(2), Cheng K(2), Zhuang R(2), Lyu Y(3).

Author information:
(1)Yan'an Key Laboratory of Microbial Drug Innovation, Medical School of Yan'an 
University, Yan'an 716000; Department of Immunology of the Air Force Medical 
University, Xi'an 710032, China.
(2)Department of Immunology of the Air Force Medical University, Xi'an 710032, 
China.
(3)Yan'an Key Laboratory of Microbial Drug Innovation, Medical School of Yan'an 
University, Yan'an 716000, China. *Corresponding author, E-mail: 
yuhonglyu@126.com.

Objective To investigate the immunoregulatory effects of CD226 on the chronic 
restraint stress (CRS)-induced depression-like behavior and its underlying 
mechanism in mice. Methods Male C57/BL6J mice and CD226 gene knockout (KO) mice 
with the same strain (4-6 week old) were adopted to establish CRS models. The 
stress-induced depression scores of mice were evaluated through behavioral 
testing such as forced swimming test and sucrose preference test. Flow cytometry 
was used to analyze the differences of the intraepithelial lymphocytes in the 
spleens, peyer's patches, and intestines between the two groups. Results 
Compared with WT CRS group, mice in CD226KO CRS group showed significantly 
decreased immobility time in forced swimming test and increased sucrose 
preference rate. The ratio of CD4+ T cells to CD8+ T cells in spleen was 
significantly reduced, combined with the remarkably elevated proportion of TCRαβ 
and TCRαβCD8αβ cells in the small intestinal IELs of CD226 KO mice with CRS. 
Conclusion Knockout of CD226 alleviates CRS-induced depression-like behavior in 
mice, alters the proportion of immune cells in murine spleen and intestine, and 
improves the overall immune status of mice under stress.

PMID: 36946349 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


59. Food Funct. 2023 Apr 3;14(7):3304-3318. doi: 10.1039/d2fo03708d.

Study on Lactiplantibacillus plantarum R6-3 from Sayram Ketteki to prevent 
chronic unpredictable mild stress-induced depression in mice through the 
microbiota-gut-brain axis.

Zhao L(1), Li D(1)(2), Chitrakar B(1), Li C(1)(2), Zhang N(1)(2)(3), Zhang S(1), 
Wang X(1), Wang M(2)(4), Tian H(1)(2)(5), Luo Y(6).

Author information:
(1)College of Food Science and Technology, Hebei Agricultural University, 
Baoding, Hebei 071000, China. tht631022@163.com.
(2)Hebei Technology Innovation Center of Probiotic Functional Dairy Product, 
Baoding, Hebei 071000, China.
(3)School of Biochemical and Environmental Engineering, Baoding University, 
Baoding, Hebei 071000, China.
(4)New Hope Tensun (Hebei) Dairy Co., Ltd, Baoding, Hebei 071000, China.
(5)National Engineering Research Center for Agriculture in Northern Mountainous 
Areas, Baoding, Hebei 071000, China.
(6)College of Food Science and Nutritional Engineering, China Agricultural 
University, Beijing 100083, China.

The prevention, mitigation and treatment of depression has become a global issue 
that needs to be solved urgently. Sayram Ketteki, a traditional natural 
fermented yoghurt from the region with the world's fourth highest life 
expectancy, has been known as the "longevity secret", whose longevity and 
anti-depression factors are speculated to come from its rich microorganisms. 
Therefore, for the first time, we systematically studied in depth the microbes 
of Sayram Ketteki, screened a new edible probiotic strain, Lactiplantibacillus 
plantarum R6-3, and explored its anti-depression effect in chronic unpredictable 
mild stress (CUMS)-induced depression in mice. It is encouraging that L. 
plantarum R6-3 was significantly superior to the classic anti-depressant drug, 
fluoxetine, in the performance of promoting sucrose preference test (SPT) 
behavior by 18% (p < 0.001), lowering the serum CORT content by 5.6% (p < 0.05), 
accelerating the brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) level by 5.9% (p < 
0.01), increasing the serum IL-10 concentration by 2.3% (p < 0.05), 
up-regulating the expression of BDNF and phosphorylated-ERK by 74% (p < 0.01) 
and 45% (p < 0.001), respectively, and facilitating the secretion of fecal 
short-chain fatty acids (SCFAs), including n-butyric, n-valeric, and isovaleric 
acid by 47% (p < 0.01), 42% (p < 0.05) and 38% (p < 0.05), respectively. Through 
the microbiota-gut-brain axis, L. plantarum R6-3 promoted the secretion of 
intestinal SCFAs through regulation of the composition and function of the gut 
microbiota, and activated the production of the monoamine neurotransmitter, 
renewed the level of brain neurotrophic factor, and suppressed the hyperactivity 
of the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis by adjusting the hippocampal 
BDNF/TrkB/ERK/CREB signaling pathway, thereby improving the immune and oxidative 
stress status, protecting hippocampal tissue from damage, maintaining a healthy 
weight and preventing CUMS-induced depressive behavior in mice. It has great 
prospects for the development of natural functional foods, the prevention and 
treatment of depression and in innovative microecological preparations.

DOI: 10.1039/d2fo03708d
PMID: 36938927 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


60. Front Pharmacol. 2023 Feb 23;14:1120508. doi: 10.3389/fphar.2023.1120508. 
eCollection 2023.

4-Methylesculetin ameliorates LPS-induced depression-like behavior through the 
inhibition of NLRP3 inflammasome.

Choudhary K(1), Prasad SR(2), Lokhande KB(3), Murti K(4), Singh S(1), 
Ravichandiran V(1)(2)(4), Kumar N(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmacology and Toxicology, National Institute of 
Pharmaceutical Education and Research-Hajipur, Hajipur, India.
(2)Department of Biotechnology, National Institute of Pharmaceutical Education 
and Research-Hajipur, Hajipur, India.
(3)Translational Bioinformatics and Computational Genomics Research Lab, 
Department of Life Sciences, Shiv Nadar University, GBNagar, Uttar Pradesh, 
India.
(4)Department of Pharmacy Practice, National Institute of Pharmaceutical 
Education and Research-Hajipur, Hajipur, India.

The pathophysiology of depression is heavily dependent on inflammation. Evidence 
suggests that the etiology of depression is linked with NLRP3 
inflammasome-induced inflammation. Therefore, blocking the activated NLRP3 
inflammasome may be beneficial for treating depression. Due to the limitations 
of currently available antidepressants, it is necessary to develop novel, safe, 
and affordable drugs for the treatment of depression. A natural coumarin 
derivative named 4-methylesculetin (4-MESC) possesses anti-inflammatory 
properties. However, the role of 4-MESC as an antidepressant has not been 
elucidated. Therefore, in this study, we explored the antidepressant-like 
effects of 4-MESC and its underlying molecular mechanism through the modulation 
of the NLRP3 inflammasome. The docking and molecular dynamic simulation studies 
revealed that 4-MESC has a higher affinity for the NLRP3 PYD. Blood-brain 
barrier permeability was confirmed using the SwissADME pharmacokinetic tool. 
High doses (50 mg/kg) of 4-MESC significantly reduced the immobility duration in 
the tail-suspension test (TST) and forced swim test (FST) without changing the 
overall locomotor activity in the female Swiss albino mice that were subjected 
to lipopolysaccharide (LPS). LPS-induced pro-inflammatory cytokines such as IL-6 
and TNF-α were reduced in serum and brain tissues using 4-MESC. 4-MESC's 
neuroprotective effects are mediated by increased brain-derived neurotrophic 
factor (BDNF) and decreased cortisol levels. 4-MESC markedly reduced LPS-induced 
elevated levels of ROS and lipid peroxidation (malondialdehyde levels) and 
enhanced the superoxide dismutase (SOD) activity and glutathione levels, which 
revealed its anti-oxidant potential against oxidative stress. 4-MESC diminished 
the expression levels of NF-κBp65, IL-6, NLRP3, caspase-1, gasdermin D, and 
IL-1β in the hippocampus. These findings demonstrated that 4-MESC exhibited 
antidepressant-like effects by inhibiting the NLRP3 inflammasome. However, other 
antidepressant mechanisms might also be involved which require further studies.

Copyright © 2023 Choudhary, Prasad, Lokhande, Murti, Singh, Ravichandiran and 
Kumar.

DOI: 10.3389/fphar.2023.1120508
PMCID: PMC9995395
PMID: 36909194

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that the research was 
conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial relationships that could 
be construed as a potential conflict of interest.61. Front Pharmacol. 2023 Feb 22;14:1124845. doi: 10.3389/fphar.2023.1124845. 
eCollection 2023.

Dlg1 deletion in microglia ameliorates chronic restraint stress induced mice 
depression-like behavior.

Li X(1), Peng Z(1), Jiang L(1)(2), Zhang P(1)(2), Yang P(1)(3), Yuan Z(1), Cheng 
J(1)(4).

Author information:
(1)The Brain Science Center, Beijing Institute of Basic Medical Sciences, 
Beijing, China.
(2)Hengyang Medical College, University of South China, Hengyang, Hunan, China.
(3)School of Basic Medical Sciences, Anhui Medical University, Hefei, Anhui, 
China.
(4)Center on Translational Neuroscience, College of Life and Environmental 
Science, Minzu University of China, Beijing, China.

Background: Major depression is one of the most common psychiatric disorders 
worldwide, inflicting suffering, significant reduction in life span, and 
financial burdens on families and society. Mounting evidence implicates that 
exposure to chronic stress can induce the dysregulation of the immune system, 
and the activation of brain-resident innate immune cells, microglia, leading to 
depression-like symptoms. However, the specific mechanisms need to be further 
elucidated. Method: Animal models of depression were established by chronic 
restraint stress (CRS), and depression-like behavior was assessed by sucrose 
preference test (SPT), open field test (OFT), tail suspension test (TST) and 
forced swimming test (FST). Microglial activation was visualized by 
immunofluorescent and immunohistochemical staining, and microglial morphological 
changes were further analyzed by skeleton analysis. The levels of inflammatory 
cytokines were detected by western blotting and qPCR. Result: Microglial Dlg1 
knockout ameliorates CRS-induced mice depression-like behavior. In contrast to 
the effect of Dlg1 in the LPS-induced mouse model, Dlg1 knockout had little 
effect on microglial density, but significantly decreased the number of 
activated microglia and reversed microglia morphological changes in mice 
challenged with CRS. Moreover, the upregulation of inflammatory cytokines 
following CRS exposure was partially reversed by Dlg1 deletion. Conclusion: Our 
study provides the evidence that Dlg1 ablation in microglia remarkedly reverses 
microglial activation and depression-like behavior in mice exposed to CRS, 
implicating a potential target for the treatment of clinical depression.

Copyright © 2023 Li, Peng, Jiang, Zhang, Yang, Yuan and Cheng.

DOI: 10.3389/fphar.2023.1124845
PMCID: PMC9992737
PMID: 36909184

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that the research was 
conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial relationships that could 
be construed as a potential conflict of interest.


62. Int J Neuropsychopharmacol. 2023 Apr 17;26(4):268-279. doi: 
10.1093/ijnp/pyad010.

Stress Induces Prolonged Pain Recovery After Surgery: Involvement of 
Glucocorticoid-Related Pathway.

Sun J(1), Xu W(2), Ye H(3), Tang D(4), Jiang Y(5), Kang Y(1), Pan J(6), Zhu 
J(1), Zhou M(4), Chen L(7).

Author information:
(1)Department of Anesthesiology, Jinshan Branch of the Sixth People's Hospital 
of Shanghai, Shanghai Jiao Tong University, Shanghai, China.
(2)Department of orthopedics, Yichun People's Hospital, The Affiliated Hospital 
of Yichun University, Yichun, China.
(3)Department of Clinical Pharmacy, The First Affiliated Hospital, School of 
Medicine, Zhejiang University, China.
(4)Department of Medicine, Jinshan Branch of the Sixth People's Hospital of 
Shanghai, Shanghai Jiao Tong University, Shanghai, China.
(5)Department of Traditional Chinese Medicine Pharmacy, Affiliated Hangzhou 
First People's Hospital, Zhejiang University School of Medicine, Hangzhou, 
China.
(6)Brain Institute, School of Pharmacy, Wenzhou Medical University, Wenzhou, 
Zhejiang Province, China.
(7)Department of Clinical Pharmacy, Key Laboratory of Clinical Cancer 
Pharmacology and Toxicology Research of Zhejiang Province, Affiliated Hangzhou 
First People's Hospital, Zhejiang University School of Medicine, Hangzhou, 
China.

BACKGROUND: Increasing evidence suggests that chronic stress increases pain 
sensitivity and exacerbates existing pain. However, whether and how chronic 
unpredictable stress (CUS) affects surgical pain is unclear.
METHODS: A postsurgical pain model was performed by longitudinal incision from 
0.3 cm of the proximal edge of the heel toward the toes. The skin was sutured, 
and the wound site was covered. Sham surgery groups underwent the same procedure 
without an incision. The short-term CUS procedure was conducted by exposure of 
mice to 2 different stressors each day for 7 days. The behavior tests were 
conducted between 9:00 am and 4:00 pm. Mice were killed on day 19, and the mouse 
bilateral L4/5 dorsal root ganglia, spinal cord, anterior cingulate and insular 
cortex, and amygdala were collected for immunoblot analyses.
RESULTS: Presurgical exposure of mice to CUS every day for 1-7 days showed 
significant depression-like behavior as evidenced by reduced sucrose preference 
in the sucrose consumption test and prolonged immobility time in the forced 
swimming task. This short-term CUS procedure did not affect the basal 
nociceptive response to mechanical and cold stimuli in the Von Frey and 
acetone-induced allodynia tests, but it delayed pain recovery after surgery, as 
indicated by the prolonged hypersensitivity in mechanical and cold stimuli by 12 
days. The subsequent studies demonstrated that this CUS caused an increase in 
adrenal gland index. The abnormalities in pain recovery and adrenal gland index 
after surgery were reversed by a glucocorticoid receptor (GR) antagonist 
RU38486. Moreover, the prolonged pain recovery after surgery induced by CUS 
seemed to involve an increase in GR expression and decreases in cyclic adenosine 
monophosphate, phosphorylated cAMP response element binding protein, and 
brain-derived neurotrophic factor levels in emotion-related brain regions, such 
as anterior cingulate and insular cortex, amygdala, dorsal horn, and dorsal root 
ganglion.
CONCLUSIONS: This finding indicates that stress-induced GR change may result in 
dysfunction of GR-related neuroprotective pathway.

© The Author(s) 2023. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of CINP.

DOI: 10.1093/ijnp/pyad010
PMCID: PMC10109421
PMID: 36905195 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


63. Life Sci. 2023 May 1;320:121546. doi: 10.1016/j.lfs.2023.121546. Epub 2023
Mar  4.

Dulaglutide impedes depressive-like behavior persuaded by chronic social defeat 
stress model in male C57BL/6 mice: Implications on GLP-1R and cAMP/PKA signaling 
pathway in the hippocampus.

Darwish AB(1), El Sayed NS(2), Salama AAA(3), Saad MA(4).

Author information:
(1)Dar EL-Salam Hospital, Ministry of Health, Cairo, Egypt.
(2)Department of Pharmacology and Toxicology, Faculty of Pharmacy, Cairo 
University, Cairo, Egypt.
(3)Pharmacology Department, National Research Centre, 33 El-Buhouth Street, 
Dokki, Cairo 12622, Egypt.
(4)Department of Pharmacology and Toxicology, Faculty of Pharmacy, Cairo 
University, Cairo, Egypt; Department of Pharmaceutical Sciences, College of 
Pharmacy, Gulf Medical University, Ajman 4184, United Arab Emirates. Electronic 
address: mohammed.abdellatif@pharma.cu.edu.eg.

AIM: There is a well-founded relation between bullying and depression, which may 
eventually lead to suicidal behavior. Repurposing of antidiabetic drugs for the 
treatment of depression started to glow, which open new horizons to introduce 
the antidiabetic medications as new treatment picks in depression. Dulaglutide 
has been approved as remedy of type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM). Consequently, 
our scope of work is to investigate the ability of dulaglutide to indulgence 
depression via deeply reconnoitering the Glucagon-like peptide-1 receptor and 
cAMP/PKA Signaling Pathway.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: Eighty mice were divided into two groups; one with and 
the other without the induction of chronic social defeat stress (CSDS). Each 
group was subdivided into two subsets; the first one was treated with saline for 
42 days, while the other was treated with saline for 20 days, then with 
dulaglutide (0.6 mg/kg/week) for four weeks.
KEY FINDINGS: CSDS group showed a lessening in the social interaction ratio and 
sucrose consumption. They spent less exploration time in the open arms, and more 
time in the closed arms in elevated plus maze test as compared to controls. 
Furthermore, the CSDS group had a higher expression of NOD- like receptor 
protein-3 which explained the elevation in inflammatory biomarkers (IL-1β, 
IL-18, IL-6 and TNF-α) along with diminution in GLP-1R, cAMP/PKA levels. 
Treatment with dulaglutide markedly reversed the above-mentioned parameters via 
bolstering the GLP-1R/cAMP/PKA pathway.
SIGNIFICANCE: NLRP3 inflammasome activation expedites depression. Dulaglutide 
activates the GLP-1R/cAMP/PKA pathway, hence offering a novel therapeutic 
intervention to hinder depression.

Copyright © 2023 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.lfs.2023.121546
PMID: 36878280 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
declare that there are no conflicts of interest.


64. Front Psychiatry. 2023 Feb 16;14:1084367. doi: 10.3389/fpsyt.2023.1084367. 
eCollection 2023.

Reward enhances resilience to chronic social defeat stress in mice: Neural ECs 
and mGluR5 mechanism via neuroprotection in VTA and DRN.

Shi P(1)(2), Hu L(2), Ren H(3), Dai Q(1)(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Medical Psychology, Army Medical University, Chongqing, China.
(2)Department of Neurology, Xinqiao Hospital, Army Medical University, 
Chongqing, China.
(3)Department of Nursing Psychology, Army Medical University, Chongqing, China.

INTRODUCTION: Stress often leads to emotional disorders such as depression. The 
reward might render this effect through the enhancement of stress resilience. 
However, the effect of reward on stress resilience under different intensities 
of stress needs more evidence, and its potential neural mechanism has been 
poorly revealed. It has been reported that the endogenous cannabinoid system 
(ECs) and downstream metabolic glutamate receptor 5 (mGluR5) are closely related 
to stress and reward, which might be the potential cerebral mechanism between 
reward and stress resilience, but there is a lack of direct evidence. This study 
aims to observe the effect of reward on stress resilience under different 
intensities of stress and further explore potential cerebral mechanisms 
underlying this effect.
METHODS: Using the chronic social defeat stress model, we applied reward 
(accompanied by a female mouse) under different intensities of stress in mice 
during the modeling process. The impact of reward on stress resilience and the 
potential cerebral mechanism were observed after modeling through behavioral 
tests and biomolecules.
RESULTS: The results showed that stronger stress led to higher degrees of 
depression-like behavior. Reward reduced depression-like behavior and enhanced 
stress resilience (all p-value <0.05) (more social interaction in the social 
test, less immobility time in the forced swimming test, etc.), with a stronger 
effect under the large stress. Furthermore, the mRNA expression levels of CB1 
and mGluR5, the protein expression level of mGluR5, and the expression level of 
2-AG (2-arachidonoylglycerol) in both ventral tegmental area (VTA) and dorsal 
raphe nucleus (DRN) were significantly upregulated by reward after modeling (all 
p-value <0.05). However, the protein expression of CB1 in VTA and DRN and the 
expression of AEA (anandamide) in VTA did not differ significantly between 
groups. Intraperitoneal injection of a CB1 agonist (URB-597) during social 
defeat stress significantly reduced depression-like behavior compared with a CB1 
inhibitor (AM251) (all p-value <0.05). Interestingly, in DRN, the expression of 
AEA in the stress group was lower than that of the control group, with or 
without reward (all p-value <0.05).
DISCUSSION: These findings demonstrate that combined social and sexual reward 
has a positive effect on stress resilience during chronic social defeat stress, 
potentially by influencing the ECs and mGluR5 in VTA and DRN.

Copyright © 2023 Shi, Hu, Ren and Dai.

DOI: 10.3389/fpsyt.2023.1084367
PMCID: PMC9978385
PMID: 36873216

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that the research was 
conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial relationships that could 
be construed as a potential conflict of interest.


65. Psychopharmacology (Berl). 2023 Apr;240(4):935-950. doi: 
10.1007/s00213-023-06336-4. Epub 2023 Mar 1.

Intranasal administration of interleukin-4 ameliorates depression-like behavior 
and biochemical alterations in mouse submitted to the chronic unpredictable mild 
stress: modulation of neuroinflammation and oxidative stress.

Smaniotto TÂ(1), Casaril AM(1), de Andrade Lourenço D(1), Sousa FS(2), Seixas 
FK(2), Collares T(2), Woloski R(3), da Silva Pinto L(3), Alves D(4), Savegnago 
L(5)(6).

Author information:
(1)Technology Development Center, Division of Biotechnology, Neurobiotechnology 
Research Group, Federal University of Pelotas, Pelotas, RS, 96010900, Brazil.
(2)Technology Development Center, Division of Biotechnology, Cancer 
Biotechnology Laboratory, Federal University of Pelotas, Pelotas, RS, 96010900, 
Brazil.
(3)Technology Development Center, Division of Biotechnology, Bioinformatics and 
Proteomics Laboratory, Federal University of Pelotas, Pelotas, RS, 96010900, 
Brazil.
(4)Center of Chemical, Pharmaceutical and Food Sciences, Laboratory of Clean 
Organic Synthesis, Federal University of Pelotas, Pelotas, RS, 96010900, Brazil.
(5)Technology Development Center, Division of Biotechnology, Neurobiotechnology 
Research Group, Federal University of Pelotas, Pelotas, RS, 96010900, Brazil. 
luciellisavegnago@yahoo.com.br.
(6)Center of Chemical, Pharmaceutical and Food Sciences, Laboratory of Clean 
Organic Synthesis, Federal University of Pelotas, Pelotas, RS, 96010900, Brazil. 
luciellisavegnago@yahoo.com.br.

Physical and psychological stress modulates the hypothalamic pituitary adrenal 
(HPA) axis, and the redox and inflammatory systems. Impairments in these systems 
have been extensively reported in major depression (MD) patients. Therefore, our 
study aimed to investigate the effects of the intranasal administration of 
interleukin-4 (IL-4) in mice with depressive-like behavior induced by chronic 
unpredictable mild stress (CUMS) for 28 days. On the 28th day, mice received 
IL-4 intranasally (1 ng/mouse) or vehicle (sterile saline), and after 30 min, 
they were submitted to behavioral tests or euthanasia for blood collection and 
removal of the adrenal glands, axillary lymph nodes, spleen, thymus, prefrontal 
cortices (PFC), and hippocampi (HC). A single administration of IL-4 reversed 
CUMS-induced depression-like behavior in the tail suspension test and splash 
test, without evoking locomotor changes. IL-4 administration reduced the plasma 
levels of corticosterone and the increased weight of suprarenal glands in 
stressed mice. Moreover, IL-4 restored the expression of nuclear factor 
erythroid 2-related factor 2 (NRF2), nuclear factor kappa B (NF-kB), interleukin 
1 beta (IL-1β), IL-4, brain derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF), and indoleamine 
2,3-dioxygenase (IDO) in the PFC and HC and modulated oxidative stress markers 
in these brain structures in stressed mice. Our results showed for the first 
time the antidepressant-like effect of IL-4 through the modulation of 
neuroinflammation and oxidative stress. The potential effect of IL-4 
administered intranasally arises as an innovative strategy for MD treatment.

© 2023. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer-Verlag GmbH Germany, 
part of Springer Nature.

DOI: 10.1007/s00213-023-06336-4
PMID: 36856802 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


66. J Affect Disord. 2023 May 1;328:261-272. doi: 10.1016/j.jad.2023.02.016. Epub
 2023 Feb 20.

Maresin-1 improves LPS-induced depressive-like behavior by inhibiting 
hippocampal microglial activation.

Shi L(1), Xia Z(2), Guo J(1), Wang L(1), Peng Z(3), Qiu D(3), Zhou Y(1), Zhou 
D(4), Kuang L(1), Qiu T(5).

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychiatry, The First Affiliated Hospital of Chongqing Medical 
University, Chongqing 400016, PR China.
(2)Department of Nuclear Medicine, The First Affiliated Hospital of Chongqing 
Medical University, Chongqing, China.
(3)Department of Radiological Medicine, College of Basic Medicine, Chongqing 
Medical University, Chongqing, China.
(4)Mental Health Center, University-Town Hospital of Chongqing Medical 
University, Chongqing, China.
(5)Department of Psychiatry, The First Affiliated Hospital of Chongqing Medical 
University, Chongqing 400016, PR China. Electronic address: 
202906@hospital.cqmu.edu.cn.

Maresin-1 is an antiphlogistic agonist synthesized by macrophages from 
docosahexaenoic acid (DHA). It has both anti-inflammatory and pro-inflammatory 
properties and has been found to enhance neuroprotection and cognitive function. 
However, there is limited knowledge of its effects on depression and the 
potential mechanism remains unclear. In this study, the effects of Maresin-1 on 
lipopolysaccharide (LPS)-induced depressive symptoms and neuroinflammation were 
investigated in mice and the possible cellular and molecular mechanisms were 
further clarified. Maresin-1 treatment (5 μg/kg, i.p.) led to improved tail 
suspension times, as well as distances moved in an open-field test but it did 
not improve reductions in sugar-water consumption in mice with depressive-like 
behaviors induced by LPS (1 mg/kg, i.p.); TSPO PETCT scanning showed that 
Maresin-1 reduced the standardized uptake value (SUV) of [18 F] DPA-714 in brain 
regions associated with depression (e.g., hippocampus and pre-frontal cortex), 
while immunofluorescence of hippocampal and indicated that Maresin-1 inhibited 
microglial activation reducing the expression of the pro-inflammatory cytokine 
IL-1β and NLRP3. The RNA sequencing of mouse hippocampi showed that genes 
expressed differentially between Maresin-1-treated and LPS-treated tissue were 
associated with tight connections between cells and the stress-activated MAPK 
cascade negative regulatory pathways. Overall, this study demonstrates that 
peripheral application of Maresin-1 could partially relieve LPS-induced 
depressive-like behaviors and showed for the first time that this effect was 
related to its anti-inflammatory action on microglia, thus providing new clues 
for the pharmacological mechanism underlying the anti-depression properties of 
Maresin-1.

Copyright © 2023 The Authors. Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jad.2023.02.016
PMID: 36813041 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of interest All the authors declare 
that the research was conducted in the absence of no commercial or financial 
relationships that could be construed as a potential conflict of interest.


67. J Ethnopharmacol. 2023 May 23;308:116288. doi: 10.1016/j.jep.2023.116288.
Epub  2023 Feb 19.

Loganin improves chronic unpredictable mild stress-induced depressive-like 
behaviors and neurochemical dysfunction.

Guo YX(1), Xia CY(2), Yan Y(2), Han Y(1), Shi R(1), He J(2), Wang YM(1), Wang 
ZX(1), Zhang WK(3), Xu JK(4).

Author information:
(1)School of Life Sciences & School of Chinese Medicine Sciences, Beijing 
University of Chinese Medicine, Beijing, 100029, People's Republic of China; 
Institute of Clinical Medical Sciences & Department of Pharmacy, China-Japan 
Friendship Hospital, Beijing, 100029, People's Republic of China.
(2)Institute of Clinical Medical Sciences & Department of Pharmacy, China-Japan 
Friendship Hospital, Beijing, 100029, People's Republic of China.
(3)Institute of Clinical Medical Sciences & Department of Pharmacy, China-Japan 
Friendship Hospital, Beijing, 100029, People's Republic of China. Electronic 
address: cpuzwk@163.com.
(4)School of Life Sciences & School of Chinese Medicine Sciences, Beijing 
University of Chinese Medicine, Beijing, 100029, People's Republic of China. 
Electronic address: xjkbucm@163.com.

ETHNOPHARMACOLOGICAL RELEVANCE: Cornus officinalis Sieb. et Zucc., is a valuable 
herb commonly used in Chinese medicine clinics. Loganin is a major iridoid 
glycoside obtained from the traditional Chinese herb Corni Fructus. Loganin, 
which has been shown to improve depression-like behavior in mice exposed to 
acute stress, is probably a potential antidepressant candidate.
AIM OF THE STUDY: Loganin was evaluated for its effect on chronic unpredictable 
mild stress (CUMS) induced depressive-like mice, and its action mechanisms were 
explored.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: ICR mice were subjected to the CUMS stimulation method to 
induce depression. The therapeutic effect of loganin on depressive-like behavior 
was evaluated by a series of behavioral tests such as sucrose preference test 
(SPT), forced swim test (FST), tail suspension test (TST) and open-field test 
(OFT). In addition, the serum levels of adrenocorticotropic hormone (ACTH) and 
corticosterone (CORT) were measured using ELISA. The levels of monoamine 
neurotransmitters were detected by high performance liquid 
chromatography-electrochemical detection (HPLC-ECD). The levels of brain-derived 
neurotrophic factor (BDNF) in the hippocampus were measured using western blot 
analysis.
RESULTS: The results showed that CUMS induced depressive-like behaviors in mice, 
as indicated by behavioral tests. Administration of loganin increased the 
sucrose preference in SPT, as well as decreased the immobility time in FST and 
TST. Loganin could also improve food intake, and increased crossing times in the 
OFT. In mechanism, loganin restored the secretion of monoamine 
neurotransmitters, ACTH and CORT to normal levels. In addition, loganin elevated 
the expression of BDNF in the hippocampus. In conclusion, loganin exerts 
antidepressant-like effects in CUMS model mice through modulating monoamine 
neurotransmitters, ACTH, CORT and BDNF.
CONCLUSION: Loganin effectively ameliorated depressive-like symptoms in 
CUMS-exposed mice by increasing 5-hydroxytryptamine (5-HT) and dopamine (DA) 
levels, alleviating hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis dysfunction, and 
increasing BDNF expression. In conclusion, the findings of the current study 
extensive evidence for the application of loganin in stress-associated 
disorders, specifically targeting depression.

Copyright © 2023 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jep.2023.116288
PMID: 36809822 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest None.


68. Behav Brain Res. 2023 Apr 12;443:114347. doi: 10.1016/j.bbr.2023.114347. Epub
 2023 Feb 14.

Investigations on Rho/ROCK signaling in post-traumatic stress disorder-like 
behavior in mice.

Sree AB(1), Hanifa M(1), Bali A(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmacology, Central University of Punjab, Ghudda, Bathinda, 
Punjab, India.
(2)Department of Pharmacology, Central University of Punjab, Ghudda, Bathinda, 
Punjab, India. Electronic address: anjana.bali@cup.edu.in.

Post-Traumatic Stress Disorder (PTSD) is a chronic condition that occurs in 
response to a traumatic event, and consequently, enhances the threat 
sensitivity. Rho/ROCK signaling has been implicated in the consolidation of fear 
memory, stress, depression, anxiety, and traumatic brain injury. However, its 
role in post-traumatic stress disorder remains elusive. Therefore, the present 
study was designed to explore the role of fasudil, a Rho/ROCK inhibitor, a mouse 
model of PTSD. Mice were subjected to underwater trauma stress followed by three 
situational reminders. Underwater trauma (UWT) significantly increased the 
freezing behavior, a marker of the formation of aversive memory, in response to 
situational reminders on the 3rd, 7th, and 14th days, suggesting the significant 
development of PTSD. Trauma and situational reminders were also associated with 
significant changes in behavioral parameters in open field, social interaction 
and actophotometer tests, along with a reduction in serum corticosterone levels. 
Fasudil (10 and 15 mg/kg) and sertraline (15 mg/kg), a standard drug for PTSD, 
significantly decreased the freezing behaviour in response to situational 
reminders, suggesting the inhibition of the formation of aversive fear memory. 
However, fasudil and sertraline did not modulate normal memory functions, as 
assessed on elevated plus maze test, before subjecting mice to traumatic stress. 
Treatment with fasudil and sertraline significantly restored the behavioral 
changes and normalized the corticosterone levels. Fasudil-mediated blockade of 
the Rho/ROCK pathway may be responsible for blocking the formation of aversive 
memory during the traumatic event, which may be manifested in form of decreased 
contextual fear response during situational reminders.

Copyright © 2023 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.bbr.2023.114347
PMID: 36791962 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing interest The authors declare no 
conflict of interest.


69. Mol Cell Neurosci. 2023 Mar;124:103821. doi: 10.1016/j.mcn.2023.103821. Epub 
2023 Feb 10.

Antidepressant-like effect of CP-101,606: Evidence of mTOR pathway activation.

Qin Y(1), Guo X(1), Song W(1), Liang Z(1), Wang Y(1), Feng D(1), Yang Y(1), Li 
M(1), Gao M(2).

Author information:
(1)School of Pharmacy, China Medical University, Shenyang 110122, China.
(2)School of Pharmacy, China Medical University, Shenyang 110122, China. 
Electronic address: mqgao26@cmu.edu.cn.

BACKGROUND: As a non-competitive N-methyl d-aspartate receptor antagonist, 
ketamine exerts rapid-onset and long-lasting antidepressant effects on 
depression, but some side effects limit its use. To identify a safer compound 
that may provide similar antidepressant effects, here we investigated whether 
CP-101,606, a selective NR2B receptor inhibitor, provides similar antidepressant 
effects and explored its underlying mechanisms.
METHODS: To mimic depressive-like behavior, mice were subjected to chronic 
unpredictable mild stress (CUMS) for 21 days. Mice were treated with CP-101,606 
at 10, 20, and 40 mg/kg doses for 7, 14, and 21 days, respectively, followed by 
a sucrose preference test (SPT), tail suspension test (TST), and forced swimming 
test (FST). Western blot analysis was performed on several targets (mTOR, 
p-mTOR, p70S6K, p-p70S6K, PSD-95, and GluA1), along with immunohistochemistry 
(GluA1) and immunofluorescence (p-mTOR) assays, using hippocampal tissue.
RESULTS: CP-101,606 at 20 and 40 mg/kg doses for 7 and 14 days and fluoxetine 
10 mg/kg and CP-101606 20 mg/kg for 21 days ameliorated depression-like 
behaviors in the SPT, TST, and FST. The effects of CP-101,606 were associated 
with a reversal of the CUMS-induced decrease in mTOR (Ser2448) and p70S6K 
(Thr389) phosphorylation and increasing PSD95 and GluA1 synthesis in the 
hippocampus.
CONCLUSIONS: Our results demonstrate that CP-101,606 produces antidepressant 
effects in CUMS mice, which may be mediated by mTOR signaling cascade 
upregulation. Our findings suggest the possible utility of CP-101,606 as a 
treatment for depression.

Copyright © 2023 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.mcn.2023.103821
PMID: 36775184 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have influenced the work reported here.


70. Front Cell Neurosci. 2023 Jan 24;17:1094808. doi: 10.3389/fncel.2023.1094808.
 eCollection 2023.

Stress-altering anterior insular cortex activity affects risk decision-making 
behavior in mice of different sexes.

Shi T(1), Feng S(2), Zhou Z(1), Li F(1)(3), Fu Y(1)(3), Zhou W(1).

Author information:
(1)State Key Laboratory of Toxicology and Medical Countermeasures, Beijing 
Institute of Pharmacology and Toxicology, Beijing, China.
(2)Department of Medical Psychology, The Third Medical Center, Chinese PLA 
General Hospital, Beijing, China.
(3)Department of Pharmacy, Nanjing University of Chinese Medicine, Nanjing, 
China.

Stress can affect people's judgment and make them take risky decisions. Abnormal 
decision-making behavior is a core symptom of psychiatric disorders, such as 
anxiety, depression, and substance abuse. However, the neuronal mechanisms 
underlying such impairments are largely unknown. The anterior insular cortex 
(AIC) is a crucial structure to integrate sensory information with emotional and 
motivational states. These properties suggest that AIC can influence a 
subjective prediction in decision-making. In this study, we demonstrated that 
stressed mice prefer to take more risky choices than control mice using a 
gambling test. Manipulating the neural activity of AIC or selectively inhibiting 
the AIC-BLA pathway with chemogenetic intervention resulted in alterations in 
risk decision-making in mice. Different sexes may have different decision-making 
strategies in risky situations. Endogenous estrogen levels affect emotional 
cognition by modulating the stress system function in women. We observed 
decision-making behavior in mice of different sexes with or without stress 
experience. The result showed that female mice did not change their choice 
strategy with increasing risk/reward probability and performed a lower risk 
preference than male mice after stress. Using the pharmacological method, we 
bilaterally injected an estrogen receptor (ER) antagonist that resulted in more 
risky behavior and decreased synaptic plasticity in the AIC of female mice. Our 
study suggested that the AIC is a crucial region involved in stress-induced 
alteration of decision-making, and estrogen in the AIC may regulate 
decision-making behavior by regulating synaptic plasticity.

Copyright © 2023 Shi, Feng, Zhou, Li, Fu and Zhou.

DOI: 10.3389/fncel.2023.1094808
PMCID: PMC9902351
PMID: 36761354

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that the research was 
conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial relationships that could 
be construed as a potential conflict of interest.


71. Sci Rep. 2023 Feb 9;13(1):2289. doi: 10.1038/s41598-023-29052-7.

Experimenter familiarization is a crucial prerequisite for assessing behavioral 
outcomes and reduces stress in mice not only under chronic pain conditions.

Segelcke D(1), Talbot SR(2), Palme R(3), La Porta C(4), Pogatzki-Zahn E(1), 
Bleich A(2), Tappe-Theodor A(5).

Author information:
(1)Clinic for Anaesthesiology, Intensive Care Medicine and Pain Therapy, 
University Hospital Münster, Albert-Schweitzer-Campus 1, 48149, Münster, 
Germany.
(2)Institute for Laboratory Animal Science and Central Animal Facility, Hannover 
Medical School, Hannover, Germany.
(3)Department of Biomedical Sciences, University of Veterinary Medicine, Vienna, 
Austria.
(4)Institute of Pharmacology, Medical Faculty Heidelberg, Heidelberg University, 
Im Neuenheimer Feld 366, 69120, Heidelberg, Germany.
(5)Institute of Pharmacology, Medical Faculty Heidelberg, Heidelberg University, 
Im Neuenheimer Feld 366, 69120, Heidelberg, Germany. 
anke.tappe-theodor@pharma.uni-heidelberg.de.

Rodent behavior is affected by different environmental conditions. These do not 
only comprise experimental and housing conditions but also familiarization with 
the experimenter. However, specific effects on pain-related behavior and chronic 
pain conditions have not been examined. Therefore, we aimed to investigate the 
impact of different housing conditions, using individually ventilated and 
standard open top cages, inverted day-night cycles, and experimenter 
familiarization on male mice following peripheral neuropathy using the spared 
nerve injury (SNI) model. Using a multimodal approach, we evaluated evoked 
pain-related- using von Frey hair filaments, measured gait pattern with the 
CatWalk system, assessed anxiety- and depression-like behavior with the Elevated 
plus maze and tail suspension test, measured corticosterone metabolite levels in 
feces and utilized an integrative approach for relative-severity-assessment. 
Mechanical sensitivity differed between the cage systems and experimenter 
familiarization and was affected in both sham and SNI mice. Experimenter 
familiarization and an inverted day-night cycle reduced mechanical 
hypersensitivity in SNI and sham mice. SNI mice of the inverted day-night group 
displayed the slightest pronounced alterations in gait pattern in the Catwalk 
test. Anxiety-related behavior was only found in SNI mice of 
experimenter-familiarized mice compared to the sham controls. In addition, 
familiarization reduced the stress level measured by fecal corticosteroid 
metabolites caused by the pain and the behavioral tests. Although no 
environmental condition significantly modulated the severity in SNI mice, it 
influenced pain-affected phenotypes and is, therefore, crucial for designing and 
interpreting preclinical pain studies. Moreover, environmental conditions should 
be considered more in the reporting guidelines, described in more detail, and 
discussed as a potential influence on pain phenotypes.

© 2023. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1038/s41598-023-29052-7
PMCID: PMC9911644
PMID: 36759654 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no competing interests.


72. PLoS One. 2023 Feb 9;18(2):e0281388. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0281388. 
eCollection 2023.

Effects of footshock stress on social behavior and neuronal activation in the 
medial prefrontal cortex and amygdala of male and female mice.

Dorofeikova M(1)(2), Borkar CD(1)(2), Weissmuller K(3), Smith-Osborne L(1)(4), 
Basavanhalli S(3), Bean E(3), Smith A(3), Duong A(1)(3), Resendez A(1)(2), Fadok 
JP(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychology, Tulane University, New Orleans, LA, United States 
of America.
(2)Tulane Brain Institute, Tulane University, New Orleans, LA, United States of 
America.
(3)Neuroscience Program, Tulane University, New Orleans, LA, United States of 
America.
(4)Tulane National Primate Research Center, Covington, LA, United States of 
America.

Social behavior is complex and fundamental, and its deficits are common 
pathological features for several psychiatric disorders including anxiety, 
depression, and posttraumatic stress disorder. Acute stress may have a negative 
impact on social behavior, and these effects can vary based on sex. The aim of 
this study was to explore the effect of acute footshock stress, using analogous 
parameters to those commonly used in fear conditioning assays, on the 
sociability of male and female C57BL/6J mice in a standard social approach test. 
Animals were divided into two main groups of footshock stress (22 male, 24 
female) and context exposed control (23 male and 22 female). Each group had mice 
that were treated intraperitoneally with either the benzodiazepine-alprazolam 
(control: 10 male, 10 female; stress: 11 male, 11 female), or vehicle (control: 
13 male, 12 female; stress: 11 male, 13 female). In all groups, neuronal 
activation during social approach was assessed using immunohistochemistry 
against the immediate early gene product cFos. Although footshock stress did not 
significantly alter sociability or latency to approach a social stimulus, it did 
increase defensive tail-rattling behavior specifically in males (p = 0.0022). 
This stress-induced increase in tail-rattling was alleviated by alprazolam (p = 
0.03), yet alprazolam had no effect on female tail-rattling behavior in the 
stress group. Alprazolam lowered cFos expression in the medial prefrontal cortex 
(p = 0.001 infralimbic area, p = 0.02 prelimbic area), and social approach 
induced sex-dependent differences in cFos activation in the ventromedial 
intercalated cell clusters (p = 0.04). Social approach following stress-induced 
cFos expression was positively correlated with latency to approach and 
negatively correlated with sociability in the prelimbic area and multiple 
amygdala subregions (all p < 0.05). Collectively, our results suggest that acute 
footshock stress induces sex-dependent alterations in defensiveness and 
differential patterns of cFos activation during social approach.

Copyright: © 2023 Dorofeikova et al. This is an open access article distributed 
under the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits 
unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the 
original author and source are credited.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0281388
PMCID: PMC9910713
PMID: 36757923 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors have declared that no competing 
interests exist.


73. Behav Pharmacol. 2023 Apr 1;34(2-3):131-140. doi:
10.1097/FBP.0000000000000716.  Epub 2022 Dec 21.

miR-124 Exacerbates depressive-like behavior by targeting Ezh2 to induce 
autophagy.

Zeng D(1), Shi Y(1), Li S(1), Xu F(1), Zhu W(1), Li H(1)(2)(3), He S(1), Yuan 
Q(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychiatry, Shanghai Mental Health Center, Shanghai Jiao Tong 
University School of Medicine.
(2)Shanghai Key Laboratory of Psychotic Disorders, Shanghai Mental Health 
Center, Shanghai Jiao Tong University School of Medicine.
(3)Clinical Research Center, Shanghai Jiao Tong University School of Medicine, 
Shanghai.
(4)Mental Health Research Office, Xiamen Xianyue Hospital, Xiamen, Fujian, 
China.

On the basis of our previous research, miR-124 and autophagy have been shown to 
be associated with depression and antidepressant treatment, respectively. 
However, whether miR-124 is involved in depressive-like behavior and 
antidepressant efficacy through regulating autophagy remains poorly understood. 
The chronic unpredictable mild stress (CUMS) depression model in mice was 
established, and then intraperitoneal fluoxetine injections (10 mg/kg) were 
administered for a duration of 4 weeks. The behavioral changes induced by CUMS 
were evaluated by the tail suspension test, open field test, sucrose preference 
test, and elevated plus maze test. Quantitative real-time PCR was used to detect 
expression levels of miR-124 and its three precursor genes in hippocampus of 
mice. Western blotting was used to detect the expressions of Ezh2 and autophagy 
proteins (P62, Atg3, Atg7, LC3-I, and LC3- II) in hippocampus of mice. 
Depression-like behaviors were successfully induced in CUMS models and reversed 
by SSRI treatments. The expression levels of miR-124 and its precursor gene ( 
miR-124-3 ) were significantly increased in the hippocampus of CUMS mice, while 
the expression levels were significantly decreased after 4 weeks of fluoxetine 
treatment. The mRNA and protein expressions of Ezh2, a validated target of 
miR-124, were decreased in the hippocampus of CUMS mice, and the fluoxetine 
treatment could reverse the expressions. A correlation analysis suggested that 
miR-124 had a significant negative correlation with Ezh2 mRNA expression. The 
protein levels of LC3-II/I, P62, and Atg7, which were found to be regulated by 
Ezh2, were increased in the hippocampus of CUMS mice and decreased after 
fluoxetine treatment. We speculated that autophagy was enhanced in the CUMS 
model of depression and might be mediated by miR-124 targeting Ezh2.

Copyright © 2022 Wolters Kluwer Health, Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1097/FBP.0000000000000716
PMID: 36752339 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


74. Neural Regen Res. 2023 Aug;18(8):1789-1794. doi: 10.4103/1673-5374.360247.

Splenectomy does not affect mouse behaviors.

Guan JQ(1), Zhang PS(2), Zhang WC(3), Zhang BQ(4), Wu HT(5), Lan Y(6), Yuan 
TF(7).

Author information:
(1)Department of Rehabilitation Medicine, Guangzhou First People's Hospital, 
School of Medicine, South China University of Technology, Guangzhou, Guangdong 
Province; Shanghai Key Laboratory of Psychotic Disorders, Shanghai Mental Health 
Center, Shanghai Jiao Tong University School of Medicine, Shanghai, China.
(2)Department of Rehabilitation Medicine, Guangzhou First People's Hospital, 
School of Medicine, South China University of Technology, Guangzhou, Guangdong 
Province, China.
(3)College of Life Science and Technology, Beijing University of Chemical 
Technology, Beijing, China.
(4)Shanghai Key Laboratory of Psychotic Disorders, Shanghai Mental Health 
Center, Shanghai Jiao Tong University School of Medicine, Shanghai, China.
(5)Department of Neurobiology, Beijing Institute of Basic Medical Sciences, 
Beijing; Key Laboratory of Neuroregeneration, Co-innovation Center of 
Neuroregeneration, Nantong University, Nantong, Jiangsu Province, China.
(6)Department of Rehabilitation Medicine, Guangzhou First People's Hospital, 
School of Medicine, South China University of Technology; Guangzhou Key 
Laboratory of Aging Frailty & Neurorehabilitation, Guangzhou, Guangdong 
Province, China.
(7)Shanghai Key Laboratory of Psychotic Disorders, Shanghai Mental Health 
Center, Shanghai Jiao Tong University School of Medicine, Shanghai; Key 
Laboratory of Neuroregeneration, Co-innovation Center of Neuroregeneration, 
Nantong University, Nantong, Jiangsu Province, China.

The spleen is critical for immunity. It is the largest immune organ and immune 
center in the peripheral system. While the relationship between behavior and 
immunity has been demonstrated in physiology and diseases, the role of the 
spleen in behavior is not clear. To investigate the effects of the spleen on 
behaviors, we performed a refined splenectomy procedure on C57BL/6J mice and 
performed an open field test, circadian rhythm test, elevated plus maze, sucrose 
preference test, and Barnes maze test. Splenectomy did not induce changes in 
general locomotion, circadian rhythms, learning and memory, or 
depression/anxiety-related behaviors. To further investigate the effects of 
spleen on stress susceptibility, we established mouse models of depression 
through chronic unpredictable mild stress. The behavioral performances of mice 
subjected to splenectomy showed no differences from control animals. These 
findings suggest that splenectomy does not cause changes in baseline behavioral 
performance in mice.

DOI: 10.4103/1673-5374.360247
PMCID: PMC10154508
PMID: 36751807

Conflict of interest statement: None


75. Biol Psychiatry Glob Open Sci. 2022 Jan 17;3(1):87-98. doi: 
10.1016/j.bpsgos.2021.12.009. eCollection 2023 Jan.

Antidepressant Response and Stress Resilience Are Promoted by CART Peptides in 
GABAergic Neurons of the Anterior Cingulate Cortex.

Funayama Y(1)(2), Li H(1)(2), Ishimori E(1), Kawatake-Kuno A(1), Inaba H(1), 
Yamagata H(3), Seki T(3), Nakagawa S(3), Watanabe Y(3), Murai T(1)(2), Oishi 
N(1), Uchida S(1).

Author information:
(1)SK Project, Medical Innovation Center, Kyoto University Graduate School of 
Medicine, Kyoto, Japan.
(2)Department of Psychiatry, Kyoto University Graduate School of Medicine, 
Kyoto, Japan.
(3)Division of Neuropsychiatry, Department of Neuroscience, Yamaguchi University 
Graduate School of Medicine, Yamaguchi, Japan.

BACKGROUND: A key challenge in the understanding and treatment of depression is 
identifying cell types and molecular mechanisms that mediate behavioral 
responses to antidepressant drugs. Because treatment responses in clinical 
depression are heterogeneous, it is crucial to examine treatment responders and 
nonresponders in preclinical studies.
METHODS: We used the large variance in behavioral responses to long-term 
treatment with multiple classes of antidepressant drugs in different inbred 
mouse strains and classified the mice into responders and nonresponders based on 
their response in the forced swim test. Medial prefrontal cortex tissues were 
subjected to RNA sequencing to identify molecules that are consistently 
associated across antidepressant responders. We developed and used 
virus-mediated gene transfer to induce the gene of interest in specific cell 
types and performed forced swim, sucrose preference, social interaction, and 
open field tests to investigate antidepressant-like and anxiety-like behaviors.
RESULTS: Cartpt expression was consistently upregulated in responders to four 
types of antidepressants but not in nonresponders in different mice strains. 
Responder mice given a single dose of ketamine, a fast-acting 
non-monoamine-based antidepressant, exhibited high CART peptide expression. CART 
peptide overexpression in the GABAergic (gamma-aminobutyric acidergic) neurons 
of the anterior cingulate cortex led to antidepressant-like behavior and drove 
chronic stress resiliency independently of mouse genetic background.
CONCLUSIONS: These data demonstrate that activation of CART peptide signaling in 
GABAergic neurons of the anterior cingulate cortex is a common molecular 
mechanism across antidepressant responders and that this pathway also drives 
stress resilience.

© 2022 The Authors.

DOI: 10.1016/j.bpsgos.2021.12.009
PMCID: PMC9874166
PMID: 36712563


76. Neurotox Res. 2023 Jun;41(3):212-223. doi: 10.1007/s12640-023-00637-4. Epub
2023  Jan 27.

Glimepiride Prevents 1-Methyl-4-Phenyl-1,2,3,6-Tetrahydropyridine Induced 
Dopamine Neurons Degeneration Through Attenuation of Glia Activation and 
Oxidative Stress in Mice.

Oduola-Akande MD(1), Ishola IO(2)(3), Olubodun-Obadun TG(1)(4), Akande AJ(5), 
Adeyemi OO(1)(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmacology, Therapeutics and Toxicology, Faculty of Basic 
Medical Sciences, College of Medicine, University of Lagos, Idi-Araba, Lagos 
State, Nigeria.
(2)Department of Pharmacology, Therapeutics and Toxicology, Faculty of Basic 
Medical Sciences, College of Medicine, University of Lagos, Idi-Araba, Lagos 
State, Nigeria. oishola@cmul.edu.ng.
(3)African Centre of Excellence for Drug Research, Herbal Medicine Development 
and Regulatory Science (ACEDHARS), University of Lagos, Lagos State, Nigeria. 
oishola@cmul.edu.ng.
(4)African Centre of Excellence for Drug Research, Herbal Medicine Development 
and Regulatory Science (ACEDHARS), University of Lagos, Lagos State, Nigeria.
(5)Department of Preventive Dentistry, Faculty of Dental Sciences, College of 
Medicine, University of Lagos, Lagos State, Nigeria.

It is well established that there is a link between type 2 diabetes mellitus and 
Parkinson's disease (PD) evidenced in faster progression and more severe 
phenotype in patients living with diabetes suggestive of shared cellular 
pathways; hence, antidiabetic drugs could be a possible treatment options for 
disease modification. This study evaluated the effect of glimepiride (GMP), a 
third generation sulphonylurea, on 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine 
(MPTP)-induced PD in mice. Sixty mice were divided randomly into six individual 
groups of 10 mice each and dose orally as follows: group 1: vehicle (10 ml/kg, 
p.o.); group 2: MPTP (20 mg/kg, i.p. × 4 at 2-h interval); groups 3-5: GMP (1, 
2, or 4 mg/kg, p.o.) + MPTP (20 mg/kg, i.p. × 4 at 2-h interval); and group 6: 
GMP (4 mg/kg, p.o.). Effect of glimepiride on motor activities were appraised 
with the use of open-field test and rotarod performance while non-motor activity 
was evaluated using force swim test (FST; depression) and Y-maze test (working 
memory). MPTP induced significant decrease in latency to fall on rotarod, 
distance covered/rearing in open field, mean speed and climbing in FST, and 
percentage alternation behavior in Y-maze suggestive of motor and non-motor 
dysfunction. However, MPTP-induced motor and non-motor dysfunction were 
ameliorated with glimepiride post-treatment. In addition, MPTP-induced increase 
in oxidative stress parameters and cholinergic neurotransmission was attenuated 
by glimepiride. In addition, MPTP-induced nigral dopamine neuron loss (decrease 
in tyrosine hydroxylase-positive neuron (TH)) and neuroinflammation (activation 
of glial fibrillary acid protein (GFAP) and ionized calcium binding adaptor 
molecule 1 (iba-1)) were ameliorated by GMP administration. This study showed 
that glimepiride ameliorates MPTP-induced PD motor and non-motor deficits 
through enhancement of antioxidant defense signaling and attenuation of 
neuroinflammatory markers. Thus, this could be useful as a disease-modifying 
therapy in the management of PD.

© 2023. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Science+Business 
Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.

DOI: 10.1007/s12640-023-00637-4
PMID: 36705862 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


77. Shock. 2023 Jan 1;59(1):82-90. doi: 10.1097/SHK.0000000000002030. Epub 2022
Nov  3.

GENETIC DELETION OF TRANSLOCATOR PROTEIN EXACERBATES POST-SEPSIS SYNDROME WITH 
ACTIVATION OF THE C1Q PATHWAY IN SEPTIC MOUSE MODEL.

Kikutani K, Hosokawa K(1), Giga H, Ota K(2), Matsumata M(3), Zhu M(3), Takemoto 
H, Ji B, Ohshimo S(2), Shime N(2), Aizawa H(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Anesthesiology and Reanimatology, Faculty of Medicine Sciences, 
University of Fukui, Japan.
(2)Department of Emergency and Critical Care Medicine, Graduate School of 
Biomedical and Health Science, Hiroshima University, Japan.
(3)Department of Neurobiology, Graduate School of Biomedical and Health 
Sciences, Hiroshima University, Japan.

Significant numbers of patients who survive sepsis exhibit psychiatric and 
cognitive impairments, termed post-sepsis syndrome. Understanding the underlying 
pathophysiology is essential to develop effective therapies. Translocator 
protein 18 kDa (TSPO) is a multifaceted mitochondrial protein implicated in 
inflammation, oxidative stress, and steroidogenesis in the central nervous 
system. Despite accumulated evidence demonstrating TSPO is a biomarker in 
psychiatric and neurodegenerative disorders, the role of this protein in 
post-sepsis syndrome remains elusive. The aim of this study was to investigate 
the role of TSPO in the long-term impairment of mouse behavior associated with 
psychiatric and cognitive impairments following sepsis induced by cecal ligation 
and puncture (CLP) surgery. Animals were divided into three groups: (i) wild 
type (WT) + sham, (ii) WT + CLP, and (iii) TSPO knock out + CLP. Survival rate 
and body weight change were assessed up to 17 days after surgeries. Then, we 
also assessed anxiety-like behavior, depression-like behavior, cognitive 
function, locomotor activity, and forelimb muscle strength in surviving mice by 
elevated plus maze, tail suspension test, y-maze, open field test, and grip 
strength test, respectively. Deletion of the TSPO gene led to high mortality and 
prolonged weight loss and exacerbated anxiety-like and depressive-like behavior 
with cognitive impairment 17 days after, but not before, CLP surgery. RNA-seq 
analysis of the hippocampus revealed the upregulation of genes (C1qb, C1qc, and 
Tyrobp) in C1q complement pathways correlated significantly with anxiety-like 
behavior that appeared long after CLP surgery. The expressions of these genes 
predicted other behavioral traits, including depressive-like behavior in the 
tail suspension test and grip power impairment, supporting the role of the C1q 
pathway in post-sepsis syndrome. Because the C1q pathway has recently attracted 
interest as a tag for pathological synaptic elimination, the current study 
suggests the C1q pathway is involved in the psychiatric and cognitive 
impairments observed in post-sepsis syndrome.

Copyright © 2022 by the Shock Society.

DOI: 10.1097/SHK.0000000000002030
PMID: 36703279 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Disclosure: The authors declare that they have 
no conflicts of interest.


78. Aging (Albany NY). 2023 Jan 11;15(1):261-275. doi: 10.18632/aging.204479.
Epub  2023 Jan 11.

The protective effect of luteolin on the depression-related dry eye disorder 
through Sirt1/NF-κB/NLRP3 pathway.

Xie M(1)(2)(3), Wang H(4), Gao T(4), Peng J(5), Meng P(3), Zhang X(2), Guo D(2), 
Liu G(2), Shi J(1)(5), Peng Q(1)(5).

Author information:
(1)College of Traditional Chinese Medicine, Hunan University of Chinese 
Medicine, Changsha, Hunan 410007, P.R. China.
(2)College of Clinical Medicine, Hunan University of Chinese Medicine, Changsha, 
Hunan 410007, P.R. China.
(3)National Key Laboratory Cultivation Base of Chinese Medicinal Powder and 
Innovative Medicinal Jointly Established by Province and Ministry, Hunan 
University of Chinese Medicine, Changsha, Hunan 410007, P.R. China.
(4)College of Pharmacy, Ningxia Medical University, Yinchuan, Ningxia 750004, 
P.R. China.
(5)The First Hospital of Hunan University of Chinese Medicine, Changsha, Hunan 
410007, P.R. China.

Luteolin has been reported to exhibit therapeutic effect on depressive-like 
behaviors in mice. Nevertheless, the therapeutic effect of luteolin on the 
depression-related dry eye disorder remains inconclusive. In this study, C57 
mice were subjected to chronic unpredictable mild stress in a dry environment 
(relative humidity in the cage <40%). The behavioral test and phenol red cotton 
thread test were employed to select the mice with both dry eye and 
depression-like behavior. The mechanism of luteolin on depression-related dry 
eye disorder was assessed by the Sirt1 selective inhibitor EX-527. Luteolin 
alleviated depressive-like behaviors induced by CUMS, increased tear secretion 
and restored corneal defects in mice. The secretions of pro-inflammatory factors 
IL-1β, IL-6, IL-18 and TNF-α were decreased in hippocampi and corneal tissues by 
Luteolin treatment. Luteolin treatment up-regulated Sirt1 expression and 
down-regulated Ac-NF-κB, NLRP3, Ac-Caspase-1, GSDMD-N, Cleaved IL-1β, and 
Cleaved IL-18 expressions. In addition, the selective inhibition of Sirt1 could 
weaken the therapeutic effect of luteolin on depression-related dry eye 
disorder. The beneficial effect of luteolin through Sirt1/NF-κB/NLRP3 signaling 
pathway might be a therapeutic strategy for the depression-related dry eye 
disorder.

DOI: 10.18632/aging.204479
PMCID: PMC9876631
PMID: 36641776 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: CONFLICTS OF INTEREST: The authors declare no 
conflicts of interest related to this study.


79. Behav Brain Res. 2023 Mar 12;441:114295. doi: 10.1016/j.bbr.2023.114295. Epub
 2023 Jan 11.

Minocycline treatment improves cognitive and functional plasticity in a 
preclinical mouse model of major depressive disorder.

Poggini S(1), Lopez MB(2), Albanese NC(3), Golia MT(4), Ibáñez FG(5), Limatola 
C(6), Furhmann M(7), Lalowski M(8), Tremblay ME(5), Maggi L(4), Kaminska B(2), 
Branchi I(9).

Author information:
(1)Center for Behavioral Sciences and Mental Health, Istituto Superiore di 
Sanità, Viale Regina Elena, 299, 00161 Rome, Italy.
(2)Laboratory of Molecular Neurobiology, Nencki Institute of Experimental 
Biology, Warsaw, Poland.
(3)Center for Behavioral Sciences and Mental Health, Istituto Superiore di 
Sanità, Viale Regina Elena, 299, 00161 Rome, Italy; PhD program in Behavioral 
Neurosciences, Sapienza University of Rome, Piazzale Aldo Moro, 5, 00185 Rome, 
Italy.
(4)Department of Physiology and Pharmacology, Istituto Pasteur-Fondazione Cenci 
Bolognetti, Sapienza University of Rome, Piazzale Aldo Moro, 5, 00185 Rome, 
Italy.
(5)Division of Medical Sciences, University of Victoria, Victoria, BC, Canada; 
Centre de recherche du CHU de Québec, Université Laval, Québec, Canada.
(6)Department of Physiology and Pharmacology, Istituto Pasteur-Fondazione Cenci 
Bolognetti, Sapienza University of Rome, Piazzale Aldo Moro, 5, 00185 Rome, 
Italy; IRCCS Neuromed, Pozzilli, Italy.
(7)German Center for Neurodegenerative Diseases, Bonn, Germany.
(8)Helsinki Institute for Life Science (HiLIFE) and Faculty of Medicine, 
Biochemistry/Developmental Biology, Meilahti Clinical Proteomics Core Facility, 
University of Helsinki, Helsinki FI-00014, Finland.
(9)Center for Behavioral Sciences and Mental Health, Istituto Superiore di 
Sanità, Viale Regina Elena, 299, 00161 Rome, Italy. Electronic address: 
igor.branchi@iss.it.

Major depressive disorder (MDD) is a chronic, recurring, and potentially 
life-threatening illness, which affects over 300 million people worldwide. MDD 
affects not only the emotional and social domains but also cognition. However, 
the currently available treatments targeting cognitive deficits in MDD are 
limited. Minocycline, an antibiotic with anti-inflammatory properties recently 
identified as a potential antidepressant, has been shown to attenuate learning 
and memory deficits in animal models of cognitive impairment. Here, we explored 
whether minocycline recovers the deficits in cognition in a mouse model of 
depression. C57BL6/J adult male mice were exposed to two weeks of chronic 
unpredictable mild stress to induce a depressive-like phenotype. Immediately 
afterward, mice received either vehicle or minocycline for three weeks in 
standard housing conditions. We measured anhedonia as a depressive-like 
response, and place learning to assess cognitive abilities. We also recorded 
long-term potentiation (LTP) as an index of hippocampal functional plasticity 
and ran immunohistochemical assays to assess microglial proportion and 
morphology. After one week of treatment, cognitive performance in the place 
learning test was significantly improved by minocycline, as treated mice 
displayed a higher number of correct responses when learning novel spatial 
configurations. Accordingly, minocycline-treated mice displayed higher LTP 
compared to controls. However, after three weeks of treatment, no difference 
between treated and control animals was found for behavior, neural plasticity, 
and microglial properties, suggesting that minocycline has a fast but short 
effect on cognition, without lasting effects on microglia. These findings 
together support the usefulness of minocycline as a potential treatment for 
cognitive impairment associated with MDD.

Copyright © 2023 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.bbr.2023.114295
PMID: 36641083 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing interests Declarations of interest: 
none.


80. Int J Mol Sci. 2022 Dec 30;24(1):622. doi: 10.3390/ijms24010622.

Fermented Perilla frutescens Ameliorates Depression-like Behavior in 
Sleep-Deprivation-Induced Stress Model.

Jee HJ(1)(2), Ryu D(1)(3), Kim S(1)(3), Yeon SH(4), Son RH(4), Hwang SH(4), Jung 
YS(1)(3).

Author information:
(1)College of Pharmacy, Ajou University, Suwon 16499, Republic of Korea.
(2)AI-Super Convergence KIURI Translational Research Center, School of Medicine, 
Ajou University, Suwon 16499, Republic of Korea.
(3)Research Institute of Pharmaceutical Sciences and Technology, Ajou 
University, Suwon 16499, Republic of Korea.
(4)R&D Center, Huons Co., Ltd., 55 Hanyangdaehak-ro, Ansan 15588, Republic of 
Korea.

Excessive stress plays a critical role in the pathogenesis of mood disorders 
such as depression. Fermented natural products have recently attracted attention 
because of their health benefits. We evaluated the antidepressant-like efficacy 
of fermented Perilla frutescens (FPF), and its underlying mechanisms, in sleep 
deprivation (SD)-induced stress mice. SD-stressed mice revealed a remarkable 
increase in the immobility time in both forced swimming test and tail suspension 
test; this increase was ameliorated by treatment with FPF at doses of 100 and 
150 mg/kg. FPF treatment also reduced the level of stress hormones such as 
corticosterone and adrenocorticotropic hormone. Additionally, FPF increased the 
levels of serotonin and dopamine which were significantly decreased in the brain 
tissues of SD-stressed mice. The increased expression of proinflammatory 
cytokines, such as TNF-α and IL1β, and the decreased expression of brain-derived 
neurotrophic factor (BDNF) in the stressed mice were significantly reversed by 
FPF treatment. Furthermore, FPF also increased phosphorylation of tropomyosin 
receptor kinase B (TrkB), extracellular regulated protein kinase (ERK), and cAMP 
response element binding protein (CREB). Among the six components isolated from 
FPF, protocatechuic acid and luteolin-7-O-glucuronide exhibited significant 
antidepressant-like effects, suggesting that they are major active components. 
These findings suggest that FPF has therapeutic potential for SD-induced stress, 
by correcting dysfunction of hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal axis and modulating 
the BDNF/TrkB/ERK/CREB signaling pathway.

DOI: 10.3390/ijms24010622
PMCID: PMC9820360
PMID: 36614066 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


81. Phytomedicine. 2023 Jan;109:154602. doi: 10.1016/j.phymed.2022.154602. Epub
2022  Dec 11.

Formononetin improves cardiac function and depressive behaviours in myocardial 
infarction with depression by targeting GSK-3β to regulate macrophage/microglial 
polarization.

Yang Y(1), Huang T(1), Zhang H(1), Li X(1), Shi S(1), Tian X(1), Huang Z(1), 
Zhang R(2), Liu Z(2), Cheng Y(3).

Author information:
(1)Joint Laboratory for Translational Cancer Research of Chinese Medicine of the 
Ministry of Education of the People's Republic of China, Guangdong Key 
Laboratory for translational Cancer research of Chinese Medicine, International 
Institute for Translational Chinese Medicine, School of Pharmaceutical Sciences, 
Guangzhou University of Chinese Medicine, Guangzhou, Guangdong 510006, China.
(2)Joint Laboratory for Translational Cancer Research of Chinese Medicine of the 
Ministry of Education of the People's Republic of China, Guangdong Key 
Laboratory for translational Cancer research of Chinese Medicine, International 
Institute for Translational Chinese Medicine, School of Pharmaceutical Sciences, 
Guangzhou University of Chinese Medicine, Guangzhou, Guangdong 510006, China; 
Shunde Hospital of Guangzhou University of Chinese Medicine, Guangzhou 
University of Chinese Medicine, Foshan, Guangdong 528333, China; Guangdong-Hong 
Kong-Macau Joint Lab on Chinese Medicine and Immune Disease Research, Guangzhou 
Univ Chinese Med, Guangzhou, Guangdong 510006, China.
(3)Joint Laboratory for Translational Cancer Research of Chinese Medicine of the 
Ministry of Education of the People's Republic of China, Guangdong Key 
Laboratory for translational Cancer research of Chinese Medicine, International 
Institute for Translational Chinese Medicine, School of Pharmaceutical Sciences, 
Guangzhou University of Chinese Medicine, Guangzhou, Guangdong 510006, China; 
Shunde Hospital of Guangzhou University of Chinese Medicine, Guangzhou 
University of Chinese Medicine, Foshan, Guangdong 528333, China; Guangdong-Hong 
Kong-Macau Joint Lab on Chinese Medicine and Immune Disease Research, Guangzhou 
Univ Chinese Med, Guangzhou, Guangdong 510006, China. Electronic address: 
chengyuanyuan@gzucm.edu.cn.

BACKGROUND: Depression is a common complication after myocardial infarction (MI) 
that can seriously affect the prognosis of MI.
PURPOSE: To investigate whether formononetin could ameliorate MI injury and 
depressive behaviours in a mouse model of MI with depression and elucidate its 
underlying molecular mechanisms.
METHODS: Haemodynamic measurements (systolic blood pressure (SYS), the maximum 
rate of rise of LV pressure (± dp/dtmax)) and behavior tests (tail suspension 
test, sucrose preference test, forced swimming test) were used to evaluate the 
effects of formononetin on male C57BL/6N mice after left anterior descending 
(LAD) coronary artery ligation and chronic unpredictable stress. RT-qPCR, 
immunohistochemistry, immunofluorescence analysis, western blotting, molecular 
docking technology, surface plasmon resonance and gene-directed mutagenesis were 
used to clarify the underlying mechanism.
RESULTS: Formononetin significantly suppressed the depressive behaviours and 
improved cardiac dysfunction in MI with depression mice model. Formononetin 
inhibited M1 polarization in macrophages/microglia, while promoting M2 
polarization. Importantly, elevated serum IL-6 and IL-17A levels were found in 
patient with MI, and the patient serum induced M1 microglial polarization; 
however, formononetin reversed the polarization. Further mechanistic studies 
showed that formononetin inhibited GSK-3β activity and downstream Notch1 and 
C/EBPα signaling pathways. Covalent molecular docking showed that formononetin 
bound to Cys199 of GSK-3β and it has a high affinity for GSK-3β. When Cys199 was 
mutation, the inhibitory effect of formononetin on GSK-3β activity and M1 
polarization in macrophages/microglia were also partly blocked.
CONCLUSIONS: Our results firstly uncovered that formononetin improved cardiac 
function and suppressed depressive behaviours in mice after MI with depression 
by targeting GSK-3β to regulate macrophage/microglial polarization. More 
importantly, IL-6 and IL-17A produced after MI may cause neuroinflammation, 
which might be the key factors for depression. Formononetin may be a potential 
drug for treating MI with depression.

Copyright © 2022. Published by Elsevier GmbH.

DOI: 10.1016/j.phymed.2022.154602
PMID: 36610138 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of Competing Interest We declared 
that there is no any competing interest between all authors.


82. Mol Vis. 2022 Dec 21;28:451-459. eCollection 2022.

Psychological stress induces moderate pathology in the ganglion cell layer in 
mice.

Zhang D(1), Sun N(2), Guo C(3), Lee JH(4), Zhang J(2), Zhao Z(2), Yu X(5), Han 
Y(4), Ge J(2), Fan Z(5).

Author information:
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, The First Affiliated Hospital of Zhengzhou 
University, Zhengzhou, China.
(2)State Key Laboratory of Ophthalmology, Zhongshan Ophthalmic Center, Sun 
Yat-sen University, Guangdong Provincial Key Laboratory of Ophthalmology and 
Visual Science, Guangzhou, China.
(3)Jiaojiang Center for Disease Control and Prevention, Taizhou, Zhejiang, 
China.
(4)Department of Ophthalmology, UCSF Medical Center, University of California at 
San Francisco, San Francisco, USA.
(5)Beijing Institute of Ophthalmology, Beijing Tongren Eye Center, Beijing 
Tongren Hospital, Capital Medical University, Beijing Ophthalmology & Visual 
Sciences Key Laboratory, Beijing, China.

PURPOSE: Primary open-angle glaucoma (POAG) is a condition with unclear 
pathogenesis. Researchers have observed an increased incidence of young Chinese 
POAG patients who manifest significant psychological stress while their 
intraocular pressure (IOP) is normal or close to normal; we hypothesize that 
psychological stress may play a causal role in initiating POAG.
METHODS: Twenty-four male C57BL/6 mice were included and divided randomly into 
two groups. A chronic unpredictable mild stress (CUMS) mouse model was 
established to evaluate the effect of psychological stress on glaucoma-related 
retinal pathologies. Body weight and IOP were recorded weekly. At 5 weeks after 
the CUMS procedure, a behavior test, serum corticosterone level, retinal nerve 
fiber layer (RNFL) thickness, retinal ganglion cell (RGC) number and 
neurotrophic factor expression were evaluated and compared between the CUMS 
group and the control group.
RESULTS: CUMS exposure induced depression-like behaviors, lighter body weight, 
and increased serum corticosterone levels in mice. RNFL thinning and neural cell 
loss in the ganglion cell layer (GCL) were observed in CUMS mice without 
significant IOP elevation. Decreased mRNA expression and protein levels of 
neurotropic factors in retinas of CUMS mice were observed, especially 
brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF).
CONCLUSIONS: The CUMS mouse model demonstrated that psychological stress induced 
glaucoma-like changes in the retinas of CUMS mice. The mechanism by which 
psychological stress induces retina defects may be due to a reduced expression 
of retinal neurotropic factors. Thus, we conclude that psychological stress is 
causally associated with POAG.

Copyright © 2022 Molecular Vision.

PMCID: PMC9784625
PMID: 36605831 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


83. Cytokine. 2023 Feb;162:156115. doi: 10.1016/j.cyto.2022.156115. Epub 2023 Jan
2.

Disruption of IDO signaling pathway alleviates chronic unpredictable mild 
stress-induced depression-like behaviors and tumor progression in mice with 
breast cancer.

Chen J(1), Li J(2), Qiao H(1), Hu R(3), Li C(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Acupuncture and Massage, Shaanxi University of Chinese 
Medicine, 1 Middle Section of Century Avenue, Qindu District, Xianyang 712046, 
China.
(2)Department of Chinese Medicine, The Sixth Medical Center of PLA Hospital, 6 
Fucheng Road, Haidian District, Beijing 100048, China. Electronic address: 
727780228@qq.com.
(3)Department of Chinese Medicine, The Sixth Medical Center of PLA Hospital, 6 
Fucheng Road, Haidian District, Beijing 100048, China.

Women with breast cancer (BC) are often combined with psychological disorder 
such as depression and anxiety. Depression is associated or correlated with 
increased toxicity and severity of physical symptoms. However, the mechanism of 
BC progression related to the regulation of emotion-related circuitry remains to 
be further explored. The study aims to investigate indoleamine 2,3-dioxygenase 
(IDO) pathway mechanism underlying stress-induced progression of BC. BC cell 
line 4T1 was subcutaneously inoculated into BALB/c mice, and they then received 
daily chronic unpredictable mild stressors (CUMS) for 12 weeks. Depression-like 
behavior tests were conducted, including sucrose preference test (SPT), tail 
suspension test (TST), forced swimming test (FST), and novelty suppressed 
feeding test (NSF). The levels of 5-Hydroxytryptamine (5-HT) and inflammatory 
factors, IL-6, CXCL1, IL-10 and IL-4 were measured by enzyme linked 
immunosorbent assay (ELISA) of mouse serum. Immunohistochemical staining was 
performed to detect Ki67- or FOXP3-positive tumor cells. The status of IDO 
signaling pathway was assessed by immunoblotting analysis. CUMS induced 
depression-like behaviors, decreased the level of 5-HT, promoted tumor 
progression, enhanced the immunohistochemical staining of Ki-67, and promoted 
the activation of IDO signaling pathway in BC mice. The IDO signaling pathway 
was disrupted in mice by lentiviral transduction of shRAN-IDO. 
Lentivirus-mediated IDO knockdown attenuated CUMS-induced depression-like 
behaviors, increased the level of 5-HT, inhibited tumor progression, and reduced 
the immunohistochemical staining of Ki-67 in BC mice. The present study suggests 
that disruption of IDO signaling pathway alleviates CUMS-induced depression-like 
behaviors and inhibits tumor progression in BC mice.

Copyright © 2022 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.cyto.2022.156115
PMID: 36599202 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of Competing Interest The authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper.


84. Nihon Yakurigaku Zasshi. 2023;158(1):35-38. doi: 10.1254/fpj.22101.

[A new method for assessing depressive-like behaviors in female mice].

[Article in Japanese]

Ago Y(1), Asano S(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Cellular and Molecular Pharmacology, Graduate School of 
Biomedical and Health Sciences, Hiroshima University.

Depression is a common mental disorder and mainly characterized by persistent 
sadness and a lack of interest or pleasure in previously rewarding or enjoyable 
activities. Despair is also a common symptom of depression, and the forced swim 
and tail suspension tests are widely used to measure this behavior in rodents, 
but the results from these tests can include the effects on stress resistance in 
addition to depressive-like states. Reduced motivation is an important marker of 
psychiatric disorders, including depression, and thus we have previously 
developed the female encounter test, a novel and simple procedure for assessing 
reward-seeking behavior in adult male mice. Importantly, female mice should be 
considered in the development of animal models of depression and assessment of 
mouse behaviors since the lifetime prevalence of a major depressive disorder in 
women is almost twice that in men, and around one in seven women can develop 
postpartum depression. In this review, we summarized our recent research on the 
male encounter test for assessing motivation in adult female mice and introduced 
new topics on animal models and therapeutic drugs for postpartum depression.

DOI: 10.1254/fpj.22101
PMID: 36596487 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


85. Cell Mol Neurobiol. 2023 Jul;43(5):2359-2376. doi:
10.1007/s10571-022-01314-4.  Epub 2022 Dec 28.

Locus Coeruleus-Noradrenergic Neurons Regulate Stress Coping During Subchronic 
Exposure to Social Threats: A Characteristic Feature in Postpartum Female Mice.

Nakamura A(1), Muroi Y(2), Ishii T(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Veterinary Medicine, Obihiro University of Agriculture and 
Veterinary Medicine, National University Cooperation Hokkaido Higher Education 
and Research System, Obihiro, Hokkaido, 080-8555, Japan.
(2)Department of Veterinary Medicine, Obihiro University of Agriculture and 
Veterinary Medicine, National University Cooperation Hokkaido Higher Education 
and Research System, Obihiro, Hokkaido, 080-8555, Japan. muroi@obihiro.ac.jp.

Stress-coping strategies have been implicated in depression. The control of 
stress coping may improve the symptom and higher prevalence of depression during 
the postpartum period in women. However, the neuronal mechanisms underlying 
stress coping remain to be fully elucidated in postpartum women. In this study, 
we examined how locus coeruleus-noradrenergic (LC-NA) neurons, which have been 
associated with both stress coping and depression, regulate changes in coping 
style induced by subchronic exposure to unfamiliar male mice as a social threat 
in postpartum female mice. In contrast to virgin females, dams exposed to 
unfamiliar males daily for four consecutive days showed reduced immobility 
duration in the forced swim test, indicating that exposure to unfamiliar males 
decreased passive stress coping in dams. Exposure to unfamiliar males also 
decreased sucrose palatability in the sucrose preference test and suppressed the 
crouching behavior in the maternal care test but did not affect anxiety-like 
behavior in the hole-board test in dams. In fiber photometry analyses, LC-NA 
neurons showed differential activity between dams and virgin females in response 
to unfamiliar males. Chemogenetic inhibition of LC-NA neurons during exposure to 
unfamiliar males prevented the social threat-induced decrease in immobility 
duration in the forced swim test in dams. Furthermore, inhibition or activation 
of LC-NA neurons exacerbated crouching behavior in dams. These results indicate 
that LC-NA neurons regulate the social threat-induced decrease in passive stress 
coping and relieve social threat-induced inhibition of maternal care in 
postpartum female mice.

© 2022. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Science+Business 
Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.

DOI: 10.1007/s10571-022-01314-4
PMID: 36577871 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


86. Korean J Physiol Pharmacol. 2023 Jan 1;27(1):113-125. doi: 
10.4196/kjpp.2023.27.1.113.

Maternal separation in mice leads to anxiety-like/aggressive behavior and 
increases immunoreactivity for glutamic acid decarboxylase and parvalbumin in 
the adolescence ventral hippocampus.

Kim EG(1), Chang W(2), Shin S(2)(3), Adhikari AS(2), Seol GH(4), Song DY(1), Min 
SS(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Anatomy and Neuroscience, Eulji University School of Medicine, 
Daejeon 35233, Korea.
(2)Department of Physiology and Biophysics, Eulji University School of Medicine, 
Daejeon 35233, Korea.
(3)Department of Neural Development and Disease, Korea Brain Research Institute, 
Daegu 41062, Korea.
(4)Department of Basic Nursing Science, Korea University School of Nursing, 
Seoul 02841, Korea.

It has been reported that stressful events in early life influence behavior in 
adulthood and are associated with different psychiatric disorders, such as major 
depression, post-traumatic stress disorder, bipolar disorder, and anxiety 
disorder. Maternal separation (MS) is a representative animal model for 
reproducing childhood stress. It is used as an animal model for depression, and 
has well-known effects, such as increasing anxiety behavior and causing 
abnormalities in the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis. This study 
investigated the effect of MS on anxiety or aggression-like behavior and the 
number of GABAergic neurons in the hippocampus. Mice were separated from their 
dams for four hours per day for 19 d from postnatal day two. Elevated plus maze 
(EPM) test, resident-intruder (RI) test, and counted glutamic acid decarboxylase 
67 (GAD67) or parvalbumin (PV) positive cells in the hippocampus were executed 
using immunohistochemistry. The maternal segregation group exhibited increased 
anxiety and aggression in the EPM test and the RI test. GAD67-positive neurons 
were increased in the hippocampal regions we observed: dentate gyrus (DG), CA3, 
CA1, subiculum, presubiculum, and parasubiculum. PV-positive neurons were 
increased in the DG, CA3, presubiculum, and parasubiculum. Consistent with 
behavioral changes, corticosterone was increased in the MS group, suggesting 
that the behavioral changes induced by MS were expressed through the effect on 
the HPA axis. Altogether, MS alters anxiety and aggression levels, possibly 
through alteration of cytoarchitecture and output of the ventral hippocampus 
that induces the dysfunction of the HPA axis.

DOI: 10.4196/kjpp.2023.27.1.113
PMCID: PMC9806646
PMID: 36575939

Conflict of interest statement: CONFLICTS OF INTEREST The authors declare no 
conflicts of interest.


87. Physiol Behav. 2023 Mar 1;260:114070. doi: 10.1016/j.physbeh.2022.114070.
Epub  2022 Dec 24.

Emotional-Single Prolonged Stress: A promising model to illustrate the gut-brain 
interaction.

Marques LS(1), Jung JT(1), Zborowski VA(1), Pinheiro RC(1), Nogueira CW(1), Zeni 
G(2).

Author information:
(1)Laboratory of Synthesis, Reactivity, Pharmacological and Toxicological 
Evaluation of Organochalcogen Compounds, Department of Biochemistry and 
Molecular Biology, Center of Natural and Exact Sciences, Federal University of 
Santa Maria, Santa Maria, RS 97105-900, Brazil.
(2)Laboratory of Synthesis, Reactivity, Pharmacological and Toxicological 
Evaluation of Organochalcogen Compounds, Department of Biochemistry and 
Molecular Biology, Center of Natural and Exact Sciences, Federal University of 
Santa Maria, Santa Maria, RS 97105-900, Brazil. Electronic address: 
gzeni@ufsm.br.

Excessive stress can precipitate depression and anxiety diseases, and damage 
gastrointestinal functionality and microbiota changes, favoring the development 
of functional gastrointestinal disorders (FGIDs) - defined by dysregulation in 
the brain-gut interaction. Therefore, the present study investigated if 
Emotional-Single Prolonged Stress (E-SPS) induces depressive/anxiety-like 
phenotype and gut dysfunction in adult Swiss male mice. For this, mice of the 
E-SPS group were subjected to three stressors sequential exposure: 
immobilization, swimming, and odor of the predator for 7 days (incubation 
period). Next, animals performed behavior tests and 24 h later, samples of 
feces, blood, and colon tissue were collected. E-SPS increased the plasma 
corticosterone levels, immobility time in the tail suspension and forced swim 
test, decreased the grooming time in the splash test, OAT%, and OAE% in the 
elevated plus-maze test, as well as increased anxiety index. Mice of E-SPS had 
increased % of intestinal transit rate, % of fecal moisture content, and fecal 
pellets number, and decreased Claudin1 content in the colon. E-SPS decreased the 
relative abundance of Bacteroidetes phylum, Bacteroidia class, Bacteroidales 
order, Muribaculaceae and Porphyromonadaceae family, Muribaculum, and 
Duncaniella genus. However, E-SPS increased Firmicutes and Actinobacteria 
phylum, Coriobacteriales order, and the ratio of Firmicutes/Bacteroidetes, and 
demonstrated Mucispirillum genus presence. The present study showed that E-SPS 
induced depressive/anxiety-like phenotype, predominant diarrhea gut dysfunction, 
and modulated the gut bacterial microbiota profile in male adult Swiss mice. 
E-SPS might be a promising model for future studies on the brain-gut interaction 
and the development of FGIDs with psychological comorbidities.

Copyright © 2022 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.physbeh.2022.114070
PMID: 36574940 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of Competing Interest The authors 
declare that there is no conflict of interest regarding the publication of this 
article.


88. Dev Psychobiol. 2023 Jan;65(1):e22357. doi: 10.1002/dev.22357.

Limited bedding nesting paradigm alters maternal behavior and pup's early 
developmental milestones but did not induce anxiety- or depressive-like behavior 
in two different inbred mice.

Pardo GVE(1), Alfaro Saca EE(1), Becerra Flores CT(1), Delgado Casós WF(1), 
Pacheco-Otalora LF(1).

Author information:
(1)Laboratorio de Investigación en Neurociencia, Instituto Científico de 
Investigación, Universidad Andina del Cusco, Cuzco, Peru.

Animal models are crucial to understanding the mechanisms underlying the 
deleterious consequences of early-life stress. Here, we aimed to examine the 
effect of the limited bedding nesting (LBN) paradigm on early life development 
milestones and anxiety- and/or depression-like behavior in adolescent and adult 
mice from two inbred mice of both sexes. C57BL/6NCrl and BALB/c litters were 
exposed to the LBN paradigm postnatal day (PND) 2-9. Maternal behavior recording 
occurred on PND 3-9, and pups were weighed daily and examined to verify the 
eye-opening on PND 10-22. The male and female offspring underwent evaluation in 
the open field test, elevated plus-maze, and the forced swimming test during 
adolescence (PND 45-49) and adulthood (PND 75-79). We found that LBN impaired 
the maternal behavior patterns of both strain dams, mainly on C57BL/6NCrl 
strain. Also, LBN delayed the pup's eye-opening time and reduced body weight 
gain, impacting C57BL/6NCrl pups more. We also found that LBN decreased 
anxiety-related indices in adolescent and adult male but not female mice of both 
strains. Furthermore, LBN decreased depression-related indices only adolescent 
female and male BALB/c and female but not male C57BL/6NCrl mice. These findings 
reinforce the evidence that the LBN paradigm impairs the maternal behavior 
pattern and pup's early developmental milestones but does not induce anxiety- or 
depressive-like behavior outcomes during later life.

© 2022 Wiley Periodicals LLC.

DOI: 10.1002/dev.22357
PMID: 36567650 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


89. J Affect Disord. 2023 Mar 1;324:8-15. doi: 10.1016/j.jad.2022.12.089. Epub
2022  Dec 23.

Effects of liraglutide on depressive behavior in a mouse depression model and 
cognition in the probe trial of Morris water maze test.

Seo MK(1), Jeong S(2), Seog DH(3), Lee JA(4), Lee JH(5), Lee Y(6), McIntyre 
RS(7), Park SW(8), Lee JG(9).

Author information:
(1)Paik Institute for Clinical Research, Inje University, Busan, Republic of 
Korea.
(2)Paik Institute for Clinical Research, Inje University, Busan, Republic of 
Korea; Department of Healthcare Information Technology, Inje University, Gimhae, 
Republic of Korea; Institute for Digital Antiaging and Healthcare, Inje 
University, Gimhae, Republic of Korea.
(3)Department of Biochemistry, College of Medicine, Inje University, Busan, 
Republic of Korea; Dementia and Neurodegenerative Disease Research Center, 
College of Medicine, Inje University, Busan, Republic of Korea; Department of 
Convergence Biomedical Science, College of Medicine, Inje University, Busan, 
Republic of Korea.
(4)Department of Psychiatry, College of Medicine, Haeundae Paik Hospital, Inje 
University, Busan, Republic of Korea.
(5)Department of Psychiatry, Schulich School of Medicine and Dentistry, Western 
University, London, ON, Canada.
(6)Brain and Cognition Discovery Foundation, Toronto, ON, Canada.
(7)Departments of Psychiatry and Pharmacology, University of Toronto, Toronto, 
ON, Canada; Mood Disorders Psychopharmacology Unit, Toronto Western Hospital, 
University of Toronto, Toronto, ON, Canada.
(8)Paik Institute for Clinical Research, Inje University, Busan, Republic of 
Korea; Department of Convergence Biomedical Science, College of Medicine, Inje 
University, Busan, Republic of Korea. Electronic address: swpark@inje.ac.kr.
(9)Paik Institute for Clinical Research, Inje University, Busan, Republic of 
Korea; Department of Psychiatry, College of Medicine, Haeundae Paik Hospital, 
Inje University, Busan, Republic of Korea. Electronic address: 
iybihwc@inje.ac.kr.

BACKGROUND: We investigated the effects of liraglutide, a glucagon-like 
peptide-1 (GLP-1) agonist, on a depression-like phenotype in mice exposed to 
chronic unpredictable stress (CUS). Learning and memory were also assessed using 
the Morris water maze (MWM) test.
METHODS: Liraglutide (0.3 mg/kg/day for 21 days) was administered to mice with 
or without exposure to CUS. After 21 days of CUS, the forced swim test (FST) was 
performed to assess its antidepressant effect. To evaluate cognitive function, 
liraglutide was administered to mice under stress-free conditions for 21 days, 
and then the MWM test was performed on 6 consecutive days.
RESULTS: Chronic liraglutide treatment reduced FST immobility in mice with and 
without CUS. In the probe trial of the Morris water maze test, the search error 
rate was reduced and the time spent and path length in the target quadrant and 
the number of platform crossings were increased.
LIMITATION: Additional animal model experiments and molecular level studies are 
needed to support the results obtained in this study.
CONCLUSIONS: Liraglutide appears to exert antidepressant effects and could 
improve cognitive function. Based on these results, GLP-1 agonists could have 
potential as novel antidepressants.

Copyright © 2022. Published by Elsevier B.V.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jad.2022.12.089
PMID: 36566932 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of interest Dr. Roger McIntyre has 
received research grant support from CIHR/GACD/National Natural Science 
Foundation of China (NSFC); speaker/consultation fees from Lundbeck, Janssen, 
Alkermes, Mitsubishi Tanabe, Purdue, Pfizer, Otsuka, Takeda, Neurocrine, 
Sunovion, Bausch Health, Novo Nordisk, Kris, Sanofi, Eisai, Intra-Cellular, 
NewBridge Pharmaceuticals, Abbvie, Atai Life Sciences. Dr. Roger McIntyre is a 
CEO of Braxia Scientific Corp.


90. Front Cell Dev Biol. 2022 Dec 6;10:1059073. doi: 10.3389/fcell.2022.1059073. 
eCollection 2022.

Transient receptor potential ankyrin 1 ion channel expressed by the 
Edinger-Westphal nucleus contributes to stress adaptation in murine model of 
posttraumatic stress disorder.

Konkoly J(1), Kormos V(1), Gaszner B(2), Correia P(3), Berta G(4)(5), Biró-Sütő 
T(1), Zelena D(3), Pintér E(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmacology and Pharmacotherapy, University of Pécs, Medical 
School, Pécs, Hungary.
(2)Department of Anatomy, University of Pécs, Medical School, Pécs, Hungary.
(3)Department of Physiology, University of Pécs, Medical School, Pécs, Hungary.
(4)Department of Medical Biology, University of Pécs, Medical School, Pécs, 
Hungary.
(5)Signal Transduction Research Group, János Szentágothai Research Centre, Pécs, 
Hungary.

The centrally projecting Edinger-Westphal nucleus (EWcp) is involved in stress 
adaptation. Transient receptor potential ankyrin 1 (TRPA1) mRNA was previously 
shown to be expressed abundantly in mouse and human EWcp urocortin 1 (UCN1) 
positive neurons and reacted to chronic stress. Since UCN1 neurons are deeply 
implicated in stress-related disorders, we hypothesized that TRPA1/UCN1 neurons 
are also affected in posttraumatic stress disorder (PTSD). We examined male 
Trpa1 wild type (WT) and gene-deficient (KO) mice in the single prolonged stress 
(SPS) model of PTSD. Two weeks later the behavioral changes were monitored by 
forced swim test (FST) and restraint. The Trpa1 and Ucn1 mRNA expression and the 
UCN1 peptide content were assessed by RNAscope in situ hybridization technique 
combined with immunofluorescence labeling in the EWcp. SPS-induced immobility 
was lower in Trpa1 KO compared to WT animals, both in the FST and restraint, 
corresponding to diminished depression-like behavior. The copy number of Trpa1 
mRNA decreased significantly in EWcp of WT animals in response to SPS. Higher 
basal Ucn1 mRNA expression was observed in the EWcp of KO animals, that was not 
affected by SPS exposure. EWcp neurons of WT animals responded to SPS with 
substantially increased amount of UCN1 peptide content compared to control 
animals, whereas such changes were not observable in KO mice. The decreased 
Trpa1 mRNA expression in the SPS model of PTSD associated with increased 
neuronal UCN1 peptide content suggests that this cation channel might be 
involved in the regulation of stress adaptation and may contribute to the 
pathomechanism of PTSD.

Copyright © 2022 Konkoly, Kormos, Gaszner, Correia, Berta, Biró-Sütő, Zelena and 
Pintér.

DOI: 10.3389/fcell.2022.1059073
PMCID: PMC9763580
PMID: 36561364

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that the research was 
conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial relationships that could 
be construed as a potential conflict of interest.


91. Nutrients. 2022 Dec 18;14(24):5382. doi: 10.3390/nu14245382.

Rice Germ Ameliorated Chronic Unpredictable Mild Stress-Induced Depressive-like 
Behavior by Reducing Neuroinflammation.

Batsukh S(1)(2), Oh S(2), Rheu K(3), Lee BJ(3), Park CH(4), Son KH(4), Byun 
K(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Anatomy & Cell Biology, College of Medicine, Gachon University, 
Incheon 21936, Republic of Korea.
(2)Functional Cellular Networks Laboratory, Lee Gil Ya Cancer and Diabetes 
Institute, College of Medicine, Gachon University, Incheon 21999, Republic of 
Korea.
(3)Marine Bioprocess Co., Ltd., Smart Marine BioCenter, Gijang-gun, Busan 46048, 
Republic of Korea.
(4)Department of Thoracic and Cardiovascular Surgery, Gachon University Gil 
Medical Center, Gachon University, Incheon 21565, Republic of Korea.

Stress-induced neuroinflammation is widely regarded as one of the primary causes 
of depression. Gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA)-enriched foods relieve stress and 
reduce inflammatory reactions. This study aimed to evaluate whether rice germ 
with 30% GABA (RG) reduced neuroinflammation in mice exposed to chronic 
unpredictable mild stress (CUMS). CUMS mice were administered 40, 90, and 140 
mg/kg of RG. CUMS increased serum and hypothalamic pro-inflammatory cytokine 
(TNF-α and IL-6) levels, which were decreased by RG. In the hypothalamus, CUMS 
elevated M1-type microglia markers of CD86 and NF-κB, whereas RG lowered these 
levels. The expression levels of NLRP3 inflammasome complex (NLRP3, 
apoptosis-associated speck-like protein containing a caspase recruitment domain, 
and caspase-1), IL-1β, and IL-18 were increased in the hypothalamus of CUMS mice 
and decreased by RG. RG attenuated depressive-like behaviors in CUMS mice, as 
measured by the forced swim test and tail suspension test. In conclusion, RG 
decreased hypothalamic inflammation-related signals, such as TNF-α, IL-6, M1 
polarization, NF-κB, NLRP3 inflammasome complex, caspase-1, IL-1β, and IL-18, to 
diminish depressive-like behavior.

DOI: 10.3390/nu14245382
PMCID: PMC9780988
PMID: 36558541 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


92. Antioxidants (Basel). 2022 Dec 12;11(12):2448. doi: 10.3390/antiox11122448.

Leaves of Cedrela sinensis Attenuate Chronic Unpredictable Mild Stress-Induced 
Depression-like Behavior via Regulation of Hormonal and Inflammatory Imbalance.

Jeong HR(1), Kim JM(1), Lee U(2), Kang JY(1)(3), Park SK(1)(4), Lee HL(1), Moon 
JH(1), Kim MJ(1), Go MJ(1), Heo HJ(1).

Author information:
(1)Division of Applied Life Science (BK21), Institute of Agriculture and Life 
Science, Gyeongsang National University, Jinju 52828, Republic of Korea.
(2)Division of Special Forest Products, National Institute of Forest Science, 
Suwon 16631, Republic of Korea.
(3)Fermentation Regulation Research Group, World Institute of Kimchi, Gwangju 
61755, Republic of Korea.
(4)Korea Food Research Institute, Jeonju 55365, Republic of Korea.

This study aimed to evaluate the protective effects of ethyl acetate fraction 
from Cedrela sinensis (EFCS) against chronic unpredictable mild stress 
(CUMS)-induced behavioral dysfunction and stress response in C57BL/6 mice. The 
physiological compounds of EFCS were identified as rutin, isoquercitrin, ethyl 
gallate, quercitrin, kaempferol-3-O-rhamnoside, and ethyl digallate, using 
UPLC-Q-TOF/MSE. To evaluate the neuroprotective effect of EFCS, H2O2- and 
corticosterone-induced neuronal cell viability was conducted in human 
neuroblastoma MC-IXC cells. It was found that EFCS alleviated depression-like 
behavior by conducting the sucrose preference test (SPT), forced swimming test 
(FST), open field test (OFT), and tail suspension test (TST). EFCS inhibited 
mitochondrial dysfunction related to neuronal energy metabolism by regulating 
reactive oxygen species (ROS) levels, mitochondrial membrane potential (MMP), 
and ATP contents in brain tissue. In addition, the administration of EFCS 
regulated the stress hormones in serum. EFCS regulated stress-related indicators 
such as CRF, ACTH, CYP11B1, and BDNF. Moreover, EFCS downregulated the 
inflammatory responses and apoptosis proteins such as caspase-1, TNF-α, IL-1β, 
p-JNK, BAX, and p-tau in brain tissues. These results suggest that EFCS might be 
a potential natural plant material that alleviates CUMS-induced behavior 
disorder by regulating inflammation in brain tissue against CUMS-induced 
depression.

DOI: 10.3390/antiox11122448
PMCID: PMC9774296
PMID: 36552656

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


93. Behav Brain Res. 2023 Feb 25;440:114256. doi: 10.1016/j.bbr.2022.114256. Epub
 2022 Dec 14.

Intestinal epithelium aryl hydrocarbon receptor is involved in stress 
sensitivity and maintaining depressive symptoms.

Madison CA(1), Hillbrick L(1), Kuempel J(1), Albrecht GL(1), Landrock KK(2), 
Safe S(3), Chapkin RS(2), Eitan S(4).

Author information:
(1)Behavioral and Cellular Neuroscience, Department of Psychological and Brain 
Sciences, Texas A&M University, 4235 TAMU, College Station, TX 77843, USA.
(2)Department of Nutrition, Texas A&M University, College Station, TX 77843, 
USA.
(3)Department of Veterinary Physiology and Pharmacology, Texas A&M University, 
4466 TAMU, College Station, TX 77843-4466, USA.
(4)Behavioral and Cellular Neuroscience, Department of Psychological and Brain 
Sciences, Texas A&M University, 4235 TAMU, College Station, TX 77843, USA. 
Electronic address: seitan@tamu.edu.

The aryl hydrocarbon receptor (AhR) is a key regulator in the 
microbiome-gut-brain axis, and AhR-active microbial metabolites modulate 
multiple neuronal responses. We recently demonstrated that 3,3'-diindolylmethane 
(DIM) and 1,4-dihydroxy-2-naphthoic acid (DHNA), two selective AhR modulators 
(SAhRMs), act as antidepressants in female mice. Thus, to examine the role of 
intestinal AhR in depression, anxiety, and spatial learning, this study employed 
transgenic mice in which the AhR was knockout only in the intestinal epithelium 
(AhRΔIEC). Additionally, this study examined whether the antidepressant effects 
of dietary DIM and DHNA is mediated by intestinal AhR. AhRΔIEC and WT female 
mice were fed daily with vehicle, 20 mg/kg DIM or DHNA for three weeks prior to 
four weeks of unpredictable chronic mild stress (UCMS). Mice were examined for 
weight gain, anhedonia-like behavior (sucrose preference test), anxiety levels 
(open field, light/dark, elevated plus maze, novelty-induced hypophagia, and 
marble burying tests), and spatial learning (Morris water maze). UCMS reduced 
weight gain in AhRΔIECs, but not WTs. Moreover, UCMS initially reduced sucrose 
preference in both AhRΔIECs and WTs, but over 4 weeks of UCMS, AhRΔIECs develop 
resilience to UCMS-induced anhedonia. Additionally, AhRΔIECs exhibit slightly 
reduced anxiety in certain tests and faster spatial learning. DIM and DHNA acted 
as antidepressants in both AhRΔIECs and WTs. Thus, this study suggests that 
intestinal AhR plays differential roles, mitigating stress effects on weight 
gain, and increasing stress effects on mood. However, the site of antidepressant 
action of SAhRMs, such as DIM and DHNA, is not dependent on the expression of 
intestinal AhR.

Copyright © 2022 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.bbr.2022.114256
PMCID: PMC9839636
PMID: 36528169 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of interest The authors have no 
conflicts of interest.


94. Cannabis Cannabinoid Res. 2022 Dec 14. doi: 10.1089/can.2022.0225. Online
ahead  of print.

A Novel Anti-Inflammatory Formulation Comprising Celecoxib and Cannabidiol 
Exerts Antidepressant and Anxiolytic Effects.

Dinur E(1), Goldenberg H(1), Robinson E(1), Naggan L(1), Kozela E(1), Yirmiya 
R(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychology, The Hebrew University of Jerusalem, Jerusalem, 
Israel.

Background: Ample research shows that anti-inflammatory drugs, particularly 
celecoxib, exert antidepressant effects, especially in patients with microglia 
activation. However, substantial cardiovascular adverse effects limit 
celecoxib's usefulness. Given that cannabidiol (CBD) exerts anti-inflammatory, 
microglia-suppressive, and antidepressant effects, we hypothesized that it may 
potentiate the therapeutic effects of celecoxib. Methods: The effects of 
celecoxib, CBD, and their combination were examined in murine models of 
antidepressant- and anxiolytic-like behavioral responsiveness, including the 
forced swim test (FST), elevated plus maze (EPM), lipopolysaccharide 
(LPS)-induced neuroinflammation, and chronic social defeat stress (CSDS), as 
well as in microglia cell cultures. Results: Acute administration of a 
combination of celecoxib plus CBD, at doses that had no effects by themselves 
(10 and 5 mg/kg, respectively), produced significant antidepressant- and 
anxiolytic-like effects in the FST and EPM, in male and female mice. In the LPS 
model, combinations of celecoxib (10 or 20 mg/kg) plus CBD (30 mg/kg) reversed 
the anxiety-like behavior in the open-field test (OFT) and anhedonia in the 
sucrose preference test (SPT), with minimal effects of celecoxib or CBD by 
themselves. In the CSDS paradigm, a combination of celecoxib plus CBD (each at 
30 mg/kg) reversed the deficits in the OFT, EPM, social exploration, and SPT, 
whereas celecoxib or CBD by themselves had partial effects. In BV2 microglia 
cultures stimulated with LPS or α-synuclein, CBD markedly potentiated the 
suppressive effects of celecoxib over TNFα (tumor necrosis factor-α) and IL 
(interleukin)-1β secretion. Conclusions: Combinations of celecoxib plus CBD 
produce efficacious antidepressant- and anxiolytic-like effects, which may 
depend on their synergistic microglia-suppressive effects.

DOI: 10.1089/can.2022.0225
PMID: 36520610


95. Drug Des Devel Ther. 2022 Dec 7;16:4179-4204. doi: 10.2147/DDDT.S383054. 
eCollection 2022.

Methanolic Extract of Aerva javanica Leaves Prevents LPS-Induced Depressive Like 
Behavior in Experimental Mice.

Arshad HM(1), Ahmad FU(1), Lodhi AH(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmacology, Faculty of Pharmacy, the Islamia University of 
Bahawalpur, Bahawalpur, Pakistan.

AIM: Depression is a chronic recurrent neuropsychiatric disorder associated with 
inflammation. This study explored the pharmacological activities of Aerva 
javanica leaves crude extract (Aj.Cr) on lipopolysaccharide (LPS)-induced 
depressive-like behavior in experimental mice.
METHODS: Aj.Cr was evaluated for its phenolic and flavonoid contents, bioactive 
potential, amino acid profiling and enzyme inhibition assays using different 
analytical techniques followed by in-silico molecular docking was performed. In 
addition, three ligands identified in HPLC analysis and standard galantamine 
were docked to acetyl cholinesterase (AchE) enzyme to assess the ligand 
interaction along with their binding affinities. In in-vivo analysis, mice were 
given normal saline (10 mL/kg), imipramine (10 mg/kg) and Aj.Cr (100, 300, and 
500 mg/kg) orally for 14-consecutive days. On the 14th day, respective treatment 
was given 30-minutes before intra-peritoneal administration of (0.83 mg/kg) LPS. 
Open field, forced swim and tail suspension tests were performed 24-hours after 
LPS injection, followed by a sucrose preference test 48-hours later. Serum 
corticosterone levels, as well as levels of nitric oxide (NO), malondialdehyde 
(MDA), glutathione (GSH), superoxide dismutase (SOD), catalase (CAT), tumor 
necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-), interleukin-1β (IL-1β), interleukin-6 (IL-6), 
brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) and catecholamines were determined in 
brain tissues.
RESULTS: In-vitro results revealed that crude extract of Aj.Cr possesses 
anti-depressant agents with solid antioxidant potential. In-vivo analysis showed 
that LPS significantly increased depressive-like behavior followed by alteration 
in serum and tissue biomarkers as compared to normal control (p < 0.001). While 
imipramine and Aj.Cr (100, 300, and 500 mg/kg) treated groups significantly 
(p<0.05) improved the depressive-like behavior and biomarkers when compared to 
the LPS group.
CONCLUSION: The mitigation of LPS-induced depressive-like behavior by Aj.Cr may 
be linked to the modulation of oxidative stress, neuro-inflammation and 
catecholamines due to the presence of potent bioactive compounds exerting 
anti-depressant effects.

© 2022 Arshad et al.

DOI: 10.2147/DDDT.S383054
PMCID: PMC9741839
PMID: 36514526 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors disclosed that there is no competing 
interests in this work.


96. Noro Psikiyatr Ars. 2022 Nov 8;59(4):325-329. doi: 10.29399/npa.28099. 
eCollection 2022.

Repeated Collection of Vaginal Smear Causes Stress in Mice.

Varol AB(1), Esen EC(1), Koçak EE(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Hacettepe University, Institute of Neurological Sciences and Psychiatry, 
Ankara, Turkey.
(2)Hacettepe University, Faculty of Medicine, Department of Psychiatry, Ankara, 
Turkey.

INTRODUCTION: Women are more likely to be misdiagnosed in many neuropsychiatric 
disorders than men. One of the possible underlying reasons for this disparity 
may be more frequent use of male mice than female mice in neuroscience studies. 
With the increasing realization of the shortcomings of this approach in 
understanding the neurobiological basis of these disorders, many funding 
agencies mandate the inclusion of both male and female subjects in study design. 
As the behaviors vary with the stage of the estrous cycle, the collection of 
vaginal smears to identify the estrous stage becomes a widely used procedure. 
Here we tested whether vaginal smear collection causes similar effects to that 
of stress by evaluating an increase in depression-like behavior and impairment 
in memory.
METHOD: Vaginal smear was collected from Swiss albino mice twice a day for 10 
days. In order to test depression-like behavior tail suspension, sucrose 
preference and splash tests were conducted. Novel object recognition and novel 
object location tests were performed 1 hour and 24 hours after training to 
evaluate short-and long-term memory respectively.
RESULTS: The female mice whose vaginal smears were collected demonstrated 
increased behavioral despair and anhedonia. Vaginal smear group showed deficits 
in both short-term and long-term memory when compared to the control group.
CONCLUSION: Our results indicate that the collection of vaginal smear not only 
increased depression-like behaviors in mice, but also impaired short-term and 
long-term memory, indicating that the procedure of vaginal smear collection was 
stressful. We recommend to consider other ways of estrous cycle staging when 
studying behavior.

Copyright: © 2022 Turkish Neuropsychiatric Society.

DOI: 10.29399/npa.28099
PMCID: PMC9723840
PMID: 36514521

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of Interest: The authors declared that 
there is no conflict of interest.


97. Physiol Behav. 2023 Feb 1;259:114050. doi: 10.1016/j.physbeh.2022.114050.
Epub  2022 Dec 5.

A high fat diet in glutamate 3-/Y mice causes changes in behavior that resemble 
human intellectual disability.

Li JM(1), Li X(2), Chan LWC(3), Hu R(4), Yang S(5).

Author information:
(1)Department of Anatomy, School of Basic Medical Sciences, Changsha Medical 
University, Changsha, 410219, China; Department of Rehabilitation, Xiangya Boai 
Rehabilitation Hospital, Changsha, 410151, China.
(2)Department of Health Technology and Informatics, Hong Kong Polytechnic 
University, Hong Kong, 99077, Hong Kong.
(3)School of Life Science, Wuchang University of Technology, Wuhan, 430070, 
China.
(4)Department of Pathophysiology, School of Basic Medical Sciences, Hubei 
University of Medicine, Shiyan, 442000, China.
(5)Department of Anatomy, School of Basic Medical Sciences, Changsha Medical 
University, Changsha, 410219, China; Department of Health Technology and 
Informatics, Hong Kong Polytechnic University, Hong Kong, 99077, Hong Kong; 
School of life science, Shaoxing University, Shaoxing, 312000, China; School of 
Public Health, He University, No.66 Sishui Street, Hunnan New District, 
Shenyang, 110163, China. Electronic address: yangsj@whu.edu.cn.

Cognitive impairment in individuals with intellectual disability (ID) is 
characterized by developmental delay and deficits in language and memory. 
Ionotropic AMPA mediate the majority of excitatory synaptic transmission in the 
central nervous system and are essential for the induction and maintenances of 
long-term potentiation (LTP) and long-term depression (LTD), two cellular models 
of learning and memory underlie many the symptoms of ID. Clinical research has 
found obese male patients with GluA3 interrupted underlie the symptom of ID. We 
tested GluA3-/Y mice under high fat diet (HFD) stress on a series of behavioral 
paradigms associated with symptoms of ID: wild type mice showed significant 
levels of sociability, while GluA3-/Y mice did not. Wild type mice showed 
significant preference for social novelty, while GluA3-/Y mice did not. Normal 
scores on relevant control measures confirmed general health and physical 
abilities in both GluA3-/Y and wild type mice (WT), ruling out artifactual 
explanations for social deficits. GluA3-/Y mice also showed working spatial 
memory behavior impairment in Y-maze test and abnormal anxiety in open-field 
test, compared to wild-type littermate controls. GluA3-/Y mice had a 
significantly reduced spontaneous activities tested by elevated plus maze, 
display both low social approach and resistance to change in routine on the 
T-maze, consistent with an ID-like phenotype. These findings demonstrate that 
selective gene deletion of GluA3 receptor in male mice under oxidative stress 
induced phenotypic abnormalities related to ID-like symptoms.

Copyright © 2022. Published by Elsevier Inc.

DOI: 10.1016/j.physbeh.2022.114050
PMID: 36476780 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of Competing Interest The authors 
declare no competing financial interests


98. Neurosci Lett. 2023 Jan 1;792:136953. doi: 10.1016/j.neulet.2022.136953. Epub
 2022 Nov 10.

Hippocampal CB1 receptor mediates antidepressant-like effect of synthetic 
cannabinoid-HU210 in acute despair reaction model in mice.

Fang G(1), Wang Y(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Emergency, Third Hospital of Xi'an, 10(#) Fengcheng Three Road, 
Xi'an, Shaanxi 710018, China.
(2)Department of Psychiatry, Xi'an International Medical Center Hospital, Xi'an, 
Shaanxi 710100, China. Electronic address: fgx995@163.com.

Growing evidence suggests that stress may contribute to the pathophysiology of 
depression. The alleviation of depressive symptoms is one of the most attractive 
medical applications of cannabis. Here, we investigated the antidepressant-like 
actions of synthetic cannabinoid-HU210 in acute despair response and explored 
the possible underlying mechanisms. Acute stress, induced by forced-swimming, 
induced depression-like behavior in the sucrose preference test (SPT). HU-210 
(50 μg/kg) displayed anti-depressant like effect in the forced swim test in 
naïve mice and decreased depression-like behavior in the SPT, induced by forced 
swim stress. Pretreatment with AM251, an inhibitor of CB1R or inhibition of 
long-term depression (LTD) at hippocampal CA3-CA1 synapses by Tat-GluR2 
attenuated the antidepressant like action of HU-210. These results indicate that 
HU210 produces antidepressant-like effects in acute stress and its underlying 
mechanism may be related to CB1R activation and hence hippocampal LTD production 
invivo. Synthetic cannabis or cannabis-related drugs may be used as an early 
intervention after acute stress exposure to prevent or at least reduce 
depression-like behaviors.

Copyright © 2022 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.neulet.2022.136953
PMID: 36372093 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of Competing Interest The authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper.


99. Behav Brain Res. 2023 Feb 13;438:114207. doi: 10.1016/j.bbr.2022.114207. Epub
 2022 Nov 8.

The 5-HT(1A) receptor biased agonist, NLX-204, shows rapid-acting 
antidepressant-like properties and neurochemical changes in two mouse models of 
depression.

Głuch-Lutwin M(1), Sałaciak K(2), Pytka K(2), Gawalska A(3), Jamrozik M(3), 
Śniecikowska J(3), Kołaczkowski M(3), Depoortère RY(4), Newman-Tancredi A(5).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmacobiology, Faculty of Pharmacy, Jagiellonian University 
Medical College, Krakow, Poland.
(2)Department of Pharmacodynamics, Faculty of Pharmacy, Jagiellonian University 
Medical College, Krakow, Poland.
(3)Department of Medicinal Chemistry, Faculty of Pharmacy, Jagiellonian 
University Medical College, Krakow, Poland.
(4)Neurolixis SAS, Castres, France.
(5)Neurolixis SAS, Castres, France. Electronic address: 
anewmantancredi@neurolixis.com.

Activation of cortical serotonin 5-HT1A receptors may be a promising strategy to 
achieve rapid-acting antidepressant (RAAD) activity. NLX-204 is a selective 
5-HT1A receptor biased agonist that, in naïve mice, robustly decreases 
immobility in the forced swim test (FST), and preferentially phosphorylates 
extracellular signal-regulated kinase (ERK1/2), involved in antidepressant 
activity. Here, we evaluated the properties of NLX-204 in two mouse models of 
depression. Male CD-1 mice were subjected to unpredictable chronic mild stress 
(UCMS) for 4-weeks or to repeated corticosterone (CORT, 20 mg/kg s.c./day) for 
3-weeks before receiving acute administration of NLX-204 (2 mg/kg, p.o.). 
Depressive-like behavior was assessed in the FST, anhedonia-like behavior in the 
sucrose preference test (SPT) and locomotor activity was also recorded. 
Phosphorylation of ERK1/2 (pERK1/2) and cAMP response binding element (pCREB) 
were measured ex vivo in hippocampus and prefrontal cortex (PFC). UCMS or CORT 
treatment increased immobility in the FST, elicited a sucrose preference 
deficit, and decreased pERK1/2 and pCREB levels in PFC and hippocampus. NLX-204 
reduced depressive-like behavior in the FST in CORT and UCMS mice, and 
normalized sucrose preference in CORT mice, suggesting anti-anhedonic activity. 
NLX-204 increased pERK1/2 levels in PFC of UCMS mice. NLX-204 also increased 
pCREB levels in PFC of CORT mice. These data suggest that NLX-204 has RAAD-like 
properties not only in naïve mice, but also in mice in a "depressive-like" 
state, and that these involve changes in PFC and hippocampal pERK1/2 and pCREB 
levels. These data provide additional evidence that activation of 5-HT1A 
receptors by selective biased agonists, such as NLX-204, may constitute a 
promising RAAD strategy.

Copyright © 2022 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.bbr.2022.114207
PMID: 36368443 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing interest A.N-T. and R.Y.D. are 
employees and shareholders of Neurolixis. The other authors have no disclosures.


100. BMC Neurosci. 2022 Nov 10;23(1):62. doi: 10.1186/s12868-022-00746-4.

Involvement of kynurenine pathway between inflammation and glutamate in the 
underlying etiopathology of CUMS-induced depression mouse model.

Wu X(#)(1), Chen B(#)(1), Di Z(2), Jiang S(3), Xu H(1), Shi M(1), Hu R(1), Sun 
S(4), Song Z(5), Liu J(1), Ma R(6)(7), Guo Q(8).

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurobiology and Acupuncture Research, The Third School of 
Clinical Medicine (School of Rehabilitation Medicine), Key Laboratory of 
Acupuncture and Neurology of Zhejiang Province, Zhejiang Chinese Medical 
University, Hangzhou, China.
(2)Department of Acupuncture and Moxibustion, The Third Affiliated Hospital of 
Zhejiang Chinese Medical University, Hangzhou, 310000, People's Republic of 
China.
(3)Department of Acupuncture and Moxibustion, The First Affiliated Hospital of 
Zhejiang Chinese Medical University, Hangzhou, 310000, People's Republic of 
China.
(4)The First Clinical Medical College, Zhejiang Chinese Medical University, 
Hangzhou, 310053, China.
(5)Basic Medical College, Zhejiang Chinese Medical University, Hangzhou, 310053, 
China.
(6)Department of Neurobiology and Acupuncture Research, The Third School of 
Clinical Medicine (School of Rehabilitation Medicine), Key Laboratory of 
Acupuncture and Neurology of Zhejiang Province, Zhejiang Chinese Medical 
University, Hangzhou, China. maria7878@sina.com.
(7)Department of Acupuncture and Moxibustion, The Third Affiliated Hospital of 
Zhejiang Chinese Medical University, Hangzhou, 310000, People's Republic of 
China. maria7878@sina.com.
(8)Department of Acupuncture and Moxibustion, The Third Affiliated Hospital of 
Zhejiang Chinese Medical University, Hangzhou, 310000, People's Republic of 
China. 20165019@zcmu.edu.cn.
(#)Contributed equally

Inflammation and glutamate (GLU) are widely thought to participate in the 
pathogenesis of depression, and current evidence suggests that the development 
of depression is associated with the activation of the kynurenine pathway (KP). 
However, the exact mechanism of KP among the inflammation, GLU and depression 
remain poorly understood. In this study, we examined the involvement of KP, 
inflammation and GLU in depressive phenotype induced by chronic unpredictable 
mild stress (CUMS) in C57B/6 J mice. Our results showed that CUMS caused 
depressive like-behavior in the sucrose preference test, tail suspension test 
and forced swimming test. From a molecular perspective, CUMS upregulated the 
peripheral and central inflammatory response and activated indoleamine 
2,3-dioxygenase (IDO), the rate-limiting enzyme of KP, which converts tryptophan 
(TRP) into kynurenine (KYN). KYN is a precursor for QA in microglia, which could 
activate the N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor (NMDAR), increasing the GLU release, 
mirrored by increased IDO activity, quinolinic acid and GLU levels in the 
hippocampus, prefrontal cortex and serum. However, intervention with IDO 
inhibitor 1-methyl-DL-tryptophan (50 mg/kg/s.c.) and 1-methyl-L-tryptophan 
(15 mg/kg/i.p.) reversed the depressive-like behaviors and adjusted central and 
peripheral KP's metabolisms levels as well as GLU content, but the inflammation 
levels were not completely affected. These results provide certain evidence that 
KP may be a vital pathway mediated by IDO linking inflammation and glutamate, 
contributing to depression.

© 2022. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1186/s12868-022-00746-4
PMCID: PMC9650798
PMID: 36357867 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that they have no conflict 
of interests.


101. Brain Behav. 2022 Dec;12(12):e2796. doi: 10.1002/brb3.2796. Epub 2022 Nov
10.

Central injection of abscisic acid attenuates mood disorders induced by 
subchronic stress in male mice.

Shabani M(1), Ranjbar H(1), Soti M(1), Naderi R(1).

Author information:
(1)Neuroscience Research Center, Neuropharmacology Institute, Kerman University 
of Medical Sciences, Kerman, Iran.

Stressful life increases the risk of mental and psychological disorders and 
cognitive deficits. Abscisic acid (ABA) is a plant hormone that has been 
recently discovered in mammalians. ABA is produced in response to stressful 
stimuli and it can reduce anxiety-like behaviors and depression and improve 
cognitive function. This study was designed to evaluate the effects of 
microinjection of ABA on depression, anxiety, passive avoidance learning and 
memory deficits induced by subchronic stress. ABA (10 and 15  μ g/mouse, i.c.v.) 
was administered one week after recovery period for 4 consecutive days. A 
three-session forced swimming test (FST) protocol for induction of subchronic 
stress was administered to the mice. Exploratory, anxiety-like behavior, 
depression and cognitive function were assessed 24 h after the last swim stress 
session. The results indicated that ABA (15  μ g/mouse) could ameliorate anxiety 
and depression induced by FST. In addition, ABA had no effect on the subchronic 
stress-induced cognitive impairments. Taken together, the results suggest that 
ABA could improve anxiety and depression induced by subchronic stress.

© 2022 The Authors. Brain and Behavior published by Wiley Periodicals LLC.

DOI: 10.1002/brb3.2796
PMCID: PMC9759152
PMID: 36355391 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


102. Behav Neurosci. 2023 Feb;137(1):52-66. doi: 10.1037/bne0000539. Epub 2022
Nov 3.

Behavioral and neurochemical effects of nociceptin/orphanin FQ receptor 
activation in the social defeat protocol.

Câmara AB(1), Brandão IA(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Biophysics and Pharmacology.
(2)Federal University of Rio Grande do Norte.

The nociceptin/orphanin FQ receptor (NOP receptor) has wide expression in the 
nervous system and is involved in neurotransmitter release. However, the role of 
the NOPR in depression is not widely recognized. This study aims to evaluate 
behavioral and biochemical effects of the NOPR agonist Ro 65-6570 in mice 
submitted to social defeat protocol. The open-field test, social interaction 
test, and tail suspension test were applied to evaluate depressive behavior in 
male Swiss mice. Blood and brain tissue samples were obtained to evaluate the 
oxidative stress. The NOP agonist, Ro 65-6570 (1 mg/kg), or the social defeat 
stress reduced exploration rate in the open-field test. The social defeat stress 
and/or the NOP agonist also increased immobility time in the tail suspension 
test and the grooming time, as well as reduced the social interaction on the 
last day of social defeat protocol. Seven days after the end of the protocol, 
only the drug alone was able to affect the animals' interaction. Additionally, 
the NOP agonist increased the concentration of carbonyl groups (CGs) in 
hippocampus and malondialdehyde in serum. The stress of social defeat and the 
NOP agonist, together, increased malondialdehyde in animals' serum and 
prefrontal cortex, as well as increased the CGs concentration in the prefrontal 
cortex. These findings indicate a chronic depressive effect induced by the NOPR 
activation, sometimes regardless of the social defeat stress. We suggest that 
the NOPR signaling can activate pathways involved in cellular oxidative stress, 
contributing to the depression pathology. (PsycInfo Database Record (c) 2023 
APA, all rights reserved).

DOI: 10.1037/bne0000539
PMID: 36326637 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


103. Immun Inflamm Dis. 2022 Nov;10(11):e707. doi: 10.1002/iid3.707.

n-3 polyunsaturated fatty acids improve depression-like behavior by inhibiting 
hippocampal neuroinflammation in mice via reducing TLR4 expression.

Hu L(1), Zeng X(1), Yang K(1), Peng H(2), Chen J(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Sleep Disorders and Neuroses, Brain Hospital of Hunan Province, 
Changsha, Hunan Province, China.
(2)Department of Clinlical Psychology, Brain Hospital of Hunan Province, 
Changsha, Hunan Province, China.

INTRODUCTION: n-3 polyunsaturated fatty acids (PUFAs) are believed to be 
implicated in the pathogenesis of many inflammation-related diseases, including 
depression.
METHODS: The mouse model of depression was established through chronic 
unpredictable mild stress (CUMS), the mice were intervened with n-3 PUFAs, and 
then the expression of toll-like receptor 4 (TLR4) was stimulated with 
lipopolysaccharides (LPS). Tail suspension test (TST), forced swimming test 
(FST) and sucrose preference test were performed to monitor the depression 
behavior of mice. Microglia activation was detected by Iba1 immunofluorescence, 
and neuronal injury was detected by Nissl staining. Concentrations of tumor 
necrosis factor (TNF)-α, Interleukin (IL)-6 and IL-1β in the hippocampus were 
assessed via enzyme linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA). Quantitative real time 
polymerase chain reaction was used to detect IL-6, IL-1β and TNF-α messenger RNA 
levels. Western blot was utilized for detection of TLR4 protein expression.
RESULTS: CUMS significantly reduced the sucrose preference in mice, while 
increased the immobility time in FST and TST. Moreover, CUMS significantly 
aggravated microglia activation and neuronal damage in mice and increased the 
levels of IL-6, IL-1β and TNF-α in hippocampal tissues, however, intervention 
with n-3 PUFAs could improve the above effects. Further, the increased TLR4 
induced by LPS partially reversed the inhibition of n-3 PUFAs on depression-like 
behaviors, microglial activation and inflammatory injury of hippocampal neurons.
CONCLUSION: n-3 PUFAs may ameliorate depression-like behaviors via reducing 
hippocampal neuroinflammation in CUMS-induced mice by regulating TLR4 
expression, suggesting that n-3 PUFAs may be an effective antidepressant, which 
provides evidence for future treatment of depression.

© 2022 The Authors. Immunity, Inflammation and Disease published by John Wiley 
&amp; Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1002/iid3.707
PMCID: PMC9552990
PMID: 36301036 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


104. Brain Sci. 2022 Oct 11;12(10):1376. doi: 10.3390/brainsci12101376.

Suppressive Effects of Isofraxidin on Depressive-like Behaviors Induced by 
Chronic Unpredictable Mild Stress in Mice.

Wu X(1), Gu J(1), Zou Z(2), Yu M(2), Zhang C(1), Xiao Q(1), Chen X(3), Li C(2).

Author information:
(1)School of Biomedical and Pharmaceutical Sciences, Guangdong University of 
Technology, Guangzhou 510006, China.
(2)School of Pharmaceutical Sciences, Guangzhou Medical University, Guangzhou 
511436, China.
(3)School of Automation, Guangdong University of Technology, Guangzhou 510006, 
China.

Isofraxidin is an active component of several traditional and functional plants 
that have beneficial properties for neurodegenerative diseases. In this study, 
we examined whether isofraxidin exhibited antidepressant-like effects in chronic 
unpredictable mild stress (CUMS)-induced mice. Firstly, isofraxidin could 
reverse CUMS-induced decrease in body weight gain in mice. Additionally, in the 
sucrose preference test (SPT), isofraxidin reversed the decrease in sucrose 
consumption due to CUMS-induced depressive-like behavior. Isofraxidin also 
increased locomotor activity in the open field test (OFT) and alleviated 
immobility duration in the forced swimming test (FST) and tail-suspension test 
(TST). Furthermore, isofraxidin decreased levels of corticosterone (CORT), 
adrenocorticotropic hormone (ACTH), and hypothalamus corticotrophin-releasing 
hormone (CRH) in the serum after CUMS-induced hyperactivity of the 
hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis. Also, isofraxidin suppresses tumor 
necrosis factor (TNF)-α, interleukin (IL)-1β, and IL-6 expression in the 
hippocampus of CUMS mice. Further investigations demonstrated that isofraxidin 
inhibited CUMS-induced activation of nuclear factor kappa B (NF-κB) and NOD-like 
receptor protein 3 (NLRP3) inflammasomes in the hippocampus. Summarily, in 
CUMS-induced mice, isofraxidin reduced depressive-like behaviors, accompanied by 
its inhibitory effects on hyperactivity of the HPA axis and NF-κB /NLRP3 
inflammasomes pathways.

DOI: 10.3390/brainsci12101376
PMCID: PMC9599741
PMID: 36291310

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


105. J Ethnopharmacol. 2023 Jan 30;301:115832. doi: 10.1016/j.jep.2022.115832.
Epub  2022 Oct 23.

Anti-depressant-like effect of fermented Gastrodia elata Bl. by regulating 
monoamine levels and BDNF/NMDAR pathways in mice.

Gao M(1), Wu Y(1), Yang L(1), Chen F(1), Li L(1), Li Q(1), Wang Y(1), Li L(1), 
Peng M(1), Yan Y(1), Yang J(1), Yang X(2).

Author information:
(1)State Key Laboratory for Functions and Applications of Medicinal Plants, 
Guizhou Medical University, Guiyang, 550014, PR China; The Key Laboratory of 
Chemistry for Natural Products of Guizhou Province and Chinese Academy of 
Sciences, Guiyang, 550014, PR China.
(2)State Key Laboratory for Functions and Applications of Medicinal Plants, 
Guizhou Medical University, Guiyang, 550014, PR China; The Key Laboratory of 
Chemistry for Natural Products of Guizhou Province and Chinese Academy of 
Sciences, Guiyang, 550014, PR China. Electronic address: gzcnp@sina.cn.

ETHNOPHARMACOLOGICAL RELEVANCE: Gastrodia elata Blume (GE) is a Chinese 
medicinal herb commonly used to treat central nervous system-related diseases, 
including headaches, dizziness, epilepsy, numbness of the limbs and depression.
AIM OF THE STUDY: Microbial-based fermentation has been successfully used to 
increase the extract efficiency of medicinal herbs in recent years. However, no 
study has hitherto explored the anti-depressant-like effect of GE processed by 
microorganisms. Herein, this subject aimed to clarify the anti-depressant-like 
effect of fermented Gastrodia elata Bl. (FGE) and its active chemical 
constituents.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: The chronic unpredictable mild stress (CUMS) model, a 
well-established animal model of depression, was induced in Kunming (KM) mice. 
The mice were administrated with FGE for 3 weeks. The sucrose preference test 
(SPT), open field test (OFT) and tail suspension test (TST) were conducted. 
Moreover, the levels of serotonin (5-HT) and dopamine (DA) in brain tissue 
homogenates, the concentration of Ca2+ and the activity of MAO in serum, H&E and 
Nissl staining in the hippocampus, and the hippocampus protein expressions of 
BDNF, NMDAR1, NMDAR2A and NMDAR2B relevant to depression were detected. 
Furthermore, chemical constituents of FGE were further isolated, and the 
protective activity of the obtained compounds against NMDA-induced PC-12 cell 
damage was assessed.
RESULTS: FGE could alleviate the depression state in CUMS-induced mice and 
reduce apoptosis of neuronal cells in the hippocampus. Furthermore, FGE could 
improve the contents of 5-HT, DA and decrease the concentration of Ca2+ and MAO 
activity in brain tissue and serum compared with the control group. It could 
reverse the decreased expression of BDNF, NMDAR2A and NMDAR2B and increase 
NMDAR1 protein expression. Investigation of the active constituents from FGE 
yielded two new compounds, (4-(((4-ethoxybenzyl) oxy)methyl)-phenol 1 and 
3-((4-hydroxy benzyl)oxy)propane-1,2-diol) 2, with twelve known compounds 
(3-14). The compounds (3-((4-hydroxybenzyl)oxy)propane-1,2-diol 2, 4, 
4'-dihydroxyd iphenyl methane 3, and bungein A 4) protected against NMDA-induced 
PC-12 cells damage.
CONCLUSION: This study demonstrated that FGE could improve the depressive 
behavior of CUMS-induced mice and exert a protective effect on nerve cells in 
the brain. Importantly, compounds 2-4 are the active components of FGE. Overall, 
the above findings suggest that FGE has huge prospects for application in 
treating depression-related diseases.

Copyright © 2022. Published by Elsevier B.V.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jep.2022.115832
PMID: 36283636 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper.


106. Braz J Med Biol Res. 2022 Oct 17;55:e12195. doi:
10.1590/1414-431X2022e12195.  eCollection 2022.

Ad libitum consumption of milk supplemented with omega 3, 6, and 9 oils from 
infancy to middle age alters behavioral and oxidative outcomes in male mice.

Silva Neto LBD(1), Chaves Filho AJM(2), Casadevall MQFC(1), Azevedo OGR(1), 
Macêdo DS(2)(3), Vasconcelos PRL(1).

Author information:
(1)Laboratório de Cirurgia Experimental, Departamento de Ciências Médicas 
Cirúrgicas, Universidade Federal do Ceará, Fortaleza, CE, Brasil.
(2)Núcleo de Pesquisa e Desenvolvimento de Medicamentos, Departamento de 
Fisiologia e Farmacologia, Laboratório de Neuropsicofarmacologia, Universidade 
Federal do Ceará, Fortaleza, CE, Brasil.
(3)Instituto Nacional de Medicina Translacional, Ribeirão Preto, SP, Brasil.

We tested the hypothesis that administration of omega (ω)-9, ω-3, and ω-6 to 
mice can prevent oxidative alterations responsible for behavioral and cognitive 
alterations related with aging. Twenty-eight-day-old mice received skim milk (SM 
group), SM enriched with omega oil mixture (EM group), or water (control group) 
for 10 and 14 months, equivalent to middle age. Mice were evaluated for 
behavioral alterations related to depression and memory and oxidative status 
[brain levels of thiobarbituric acid reactive substances (TBARS), reduced 
glutathione (GSH), and myeloperoxidase (MPO)]. The 10-month EM group increased 
immobility time during the forced swimming test compared with control, 
indicating increased stress response. The 14-month SM- and EM-treated groups 
increased sucrose consumption compared with control, showing an expanded 
motivational state. The 14-month SM group decreased the number of rearings 
compared with the 14-month control and EM groups. The number of entries and time 
spent in the central square of the open field was higher in the 10-month EM 
group than in the control, revealing an anxiolytic-like behavior. TBARS 
decreased in the hippocampus and striatum of the 10-month EM group compared with 
the control. A similar decrease was observed in the striatum of the 10-month SM 
group. GSH levels were higher in all 14-month treated groups compared with 
10-month groups. MPO activity was higher in the 14-month EM group compared with 
the 14-month control and SM groups, revealing a possible pro-inflammatory 
status. In conclusion, omega oils induced conflicting alterations in middle-aged 
mice, contributing to enhanced behavior and anxiolytic and expanded motivational 
state, but also to increased stress response and pro-inflammatory alterations.

DOI: 10.1590/1414-431X2022e12195
PMCID: PMC9578697
PMID: 36259798 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


107. Oxid Med Cell Longev. 2022 Sep 30;2022:3322535. doi: 10.1155/2022/3322535. 
eCollection 2022.

Muscone with Attenuation of Neuroinflammation and Oxidative Stress Exerts 
Antidepressant-Like Effect in Mouse Model of Chronic Restraint Stress.

Liu H(1), Liu LL(1), Chen J(2)(3), Chen YW(2)(3), Chai Y(2)(3), Liu QS(1), Cheng 
Y(1).

Author information:
(1)Key Laboratory of Ethnomedicine for Ministry of Education, Center for 
Translational Neuroscience, School of Pharmacy, Minzu University of China, 
Beijing, China.
(2)Chinese Academy of Sciences Key Laboratory of Brain Connectome and 
Manipulation, Shenzhen Key Laboratory of Translational Research for Brain 
Diseases, The Brain Cognition and Brain Disease Institute, Shenzhen Institute of 
Advanced Technology, Chinese Academy of Sciences, Shenzhen-Hong Kong Institute 
of Brain Science, Shenzhen Fundamental Research Institutions, Shenzhen 518055, 
China.
(3)Shenzhen College of Advanced Technology, University of Chinese Academy of 
Sciences, Beijing 100049, China.

Major depressive disorder (MDD) is a common mental disorder with high morbidity. 
Stress negatively affects for MDD development, whereby transport of 
stress-induced inflammatory mediators to the central nervous system (CNS) is 
associated with the etiology of mood disorders. Muscone is a pharmacologically 
active ingredient isolated from musk, with anti-inflammatory and neuroprotective 
effects. We hypothesized that muscone may ameliorate depression-like behavior by 
regulating inflammatory responses. To test this hypothesis, we used the chronic 
restraint stress (CRS) depression model, and CRS mice were treated with muscone 
(10 mg/kg, i.g., respectively) for 14 days. The effects of the drug on 
depressive-like behaviors were evaluated via the open field test (OFT), 
novelty-suppressed feeding test (NSFT), tail suspension test (TST), and forced 
swimming test (FST). Quantitative reverse transcription-PCR (qRT-PCR) was 
utilized to assess levels of proinflammatory cytokines (IL-6, TNF-α, COX2, and 
IL-1) and the anti-inflammatory cytokines (IL-4 and IL-10). We also determined 
levels of oxidative stress factors (malondialdehyde, superoxide dismutase, and 
glutathione peroxidase), as well as doublecortin (DCX) expression by 
immunofluorescence. The results showed that depression-like behavior and 
inflammatory levels were improved after muscone treatment. Muscone also 
significantly improved neurogenesis in the CRS mouse hippocampus and decreased 
oxidative stress in both the central and peripheral nervous systems. In 
conclusion, this work is the first to demonstrate that muscone has an 
antidepressant effect using a CRS model. Oxidative stress, neurogenesis, and 
inflammatory pathways are key factors affected by the drug and may represent new 
therapeutic targets to treat MDD, in this impact. These results may represent a 
new therapeutic target for MDD.

Copyright © 2022 Hua Liu et al.

DOI: 10.1155/2022/3322535
PMCID: PMC9546698
PMID: 36211814 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that they have no conflicts 
of interest.


108. Front Pharmacol. 2022 Sep 20;13:999962. doi: 10.3389/fphar.2022.999962. 
eCollection 2022.

Anti-depression effectiveness of essential oil from the fruits of Zanthoxylum 
bungeanum maxim. on chronic unpredictable mild stress-induced depression 
behavior in mice.

Tang D(1)(2), Liang Q(1), Zhang M(1), Li M(1), Zhang Q(1), Zhang S(3), Ai L(1), 
Wu C(1).

Author information:
(1)Chengdu University of Traditional Chinese Medicine, Chengdu, China.
(2)Sichuan College of Traditional Chinese Medicine, Mianyang, China.
(3)School of Laboratory Medicine/Sichuan Provincial Engineering Laboratory for 
Prevention and Control Technology of Veterinary Drug Residue in Animal-Origin 
Food, Chengdu Medical College, Chengdu, China.

The fruits of Zanthoxylum bungeanum Maxim. Was a popular traditional Chinese 
herbal medicine for pain relief, itching prevention, and diarrhea relief. The 
fruits of Zanthoxylum bungeanum Maxim. Essential oil (HEO) had an effect of 
improving anxiety and other emotional disorders. In this paper, we aim to 
systematically research the antidepressant effects of HEO on Chronic Mild 
Unpredictable Stimulation (CUMS) mice and explore the relevant molecular 
mechanisms. Experimental mice were exposed to CUMS for 8 weeks. Meanwhile, for 8 
weeks, Sertraline hydrochloride (20 mg/kg/day) and HEO (50, 100, and 
150 mg/kg/day) were administered by gavage. HEO treatment increased residence 
time of central zone in OFT and open-arm in EPM test but decreased immobility 
times in FST and TST. Moreover, HEO treatment improved the levels of 5-HT, DA, 
NE, and BDNF, but reduced CRF and CORT levels of the HPA axis in the 
hippocampus. Network pharmacology predicted the possible mechanisms for the 
antidepressant effects of HEO by regulation of PI3K/Akt signaling pathway. The 
mRNA expression of PI3K and Akt were increased, and immunofluorescence results 
in the hippocampus indicated that HEO treatment could increase the 
phosphorylation of PI3K and Akt. Besides, the viability of CORT-treated PC12 
cells was significantly improved by HEO treatment. The AO-EB staining, MOMP 
analysis, and flow cytometry analysis results showed HEO inhibiting the 
CORT-induced apoptosis in PC12 cells significantly. Besides, the phosphorylation 
of PI3K and Akt in COTR-induced PC12 cells could increase by HEO treatment. In 
conclusion, HEO ameliorated depression behavior induced by CUMS, potentially via 
regulating HPA axis and activating PI3K/Akt signaling pathway to reduce neuronal 
apoptosis.

Copyright © 2022 Tang, Liang, Zhang, Li, Zhang, Zhang, Ai and Wu.

DOI: 10.3389/fphar.2022.999962
PMCID: PMC9530639
PMID: 36204228

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that the research was 
conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial relationships that could 
be construed as a potential conflict of interest.


109. Brain Res. 2022 Dec 15;1797:148113. doi: 10.1016/j.brainres.2022.148113.
Epub  2022 Oct 3.

Swimming exercise ameliorates depressive-like behavior by anti-inflammation 
activity, rebalancing gut Escherichia coli and Lactobacilli.

Ding Z(1), Du L(2).

Author information:
(1)International Sport Management, Health and Life Sciences, Northumbria 
University Newcastle, NE1 8ST, UK.
(2)Department of Laboratory Medicine, Affiliated Hospital of Yangzhou 
University, Yangzhou 225012, Jiangsu, China. Electronic address: 
dulongfei1988@sina.cn.

Major depressive disorder (MDD) is a common mental disease with high morbidity, 
recurrence and mortality and is a serious global health problem.Aerobic exercise 
produces beneficial effects on depression and associated comorbidities.Swimming 
exercise with high motor complexity may be particularly beneficial for patients 
with depression.We hypothesized that swimming exercise improves various types of 
depression-like behaviors and these effects are related to improved immune and 
inflammatory response by regulating microbiota-gut-brain axis.We established the 
Lipopolysaccharides (LPS)/Chronic unpredictable stress (CUS) mice model of 
depression. The forced swimming test (FST) and tail suspension test (TST) were 
used as predictive animal models of antidepressant-like activity.Swimming 
exercise significantly decreased the duration of immobility in FST and TST.We 
found that swimming exercise could significantly decrease the levels of 
pro-inflammatory cytokines in the central nervous system (CNS). Shifts in the 
composition of the gut microbiota were significant in depression model induced 
by LPS/CUS, notably as decreases in lactobacilli and increases in escherichia 
coli (E. coli), which were reversed byswimming exercise. Current study indicated 
that swimming exercise has huge potential for antidepressant therapy, and gut 
microbiotaplays an important role inregulating inflammation. We are pleased that 
current can study reveal a potentially promising method with less adverse 
reaction for combating depression and open up an important new area for future 
research.

Copyright © 2022 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.brainres.2022.148113
PMID: 36195262

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of Competing Interest The authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper.


110. Biochem Biophys Res Commun. 2022 Dec 3;632:24-31. doi: 
10.1016/j.bbrc.2022.09.063. Epub 2022 Sep 24.

Comparison of the chronic unpredictable mild stress and the maternal separation 
in mice postpartum depression modeling.

Zhang Y(1), Zhang L(2), Shi B(3), Huang F(1), Gao Y(1), Miao Z(1), Ma K(4), Zhan 
Z(1), Zou W(5), Liu M(6).

Author information:
(1)NMPA Key Laboratory for Research and Evaluation of Drug Metabolism, Guangdong 
Provincial Key Laboratory of New Drug Screening, School of Pharmaceutical 
Sciences, Southern Medical University, Guangzhou, 510515, China.
(2)NHC Key Laboratory of Birth Defects Research, Prevention and Treatment, Hunan 
Provincial Maternal and Child Health Care Hospital, Changsha, 410008, Hunan, 
China. Electronic address: sunmoontear@163.com.
(3)NMPA Key Laboratory for Research and Evaluation of Drug Metabolism, Guangdong 
Provincial Key Laboratory of New Drug Screening, School of Pharmaceutical 
Sciences, Southern Medical University, Guangzhou, 510515, China; Phase I 
Clinical Research Unit, The Sixth Affiliated Hospital of Guangzhou Medical 
University, Qingyuan People's Hospital, No. B24, Yinquan Road, Qingcheng 
District, Qingyuan City, Guangdong Province, 511518, China.
(4)Integrated Hospital of Traditional Chinese Medicine, Southern Medical 
University, Guangzhou, 510515, China.
(5)NHC Key Laboratory of Birth Defects Research, Prevention and Treatment, Hunan 
Provincial Maternal and Child Health Care Hospital, Changsha, 410008, Hunan, 
China.
(6)NMPA Key Laboratory for Research and Evaluation of Drug Metabolism, Guangdong 
Provincial Key Laboratory of New Drug Screening, School of Pharmaceutical 
Sciences, Southern Medical University, Guangzhou, 510515, China. Electronic 
address: liumenghua@smu.edu.cn.

Postpartum depression (PPD) is a serious mental health concern of new mothers 
worldwide. In view of the particularity of puerpera, the research on 
pathogenesis and drug development of PPD are highly dependent on animal models. 
Although both maternal separation (MS) and chronic unpredictable mild stress 
(CUMS) modeling approaches have been used in PPD studies, the characteristics of 
the two rodent models have not been compared to explain which is more 
advantageous in PPD research. In this study, we applied 21-day MS and CUMS 
paradigms to induce mouse model of PPD and compared their differences in 
behavior, physiology and gut microbiota. As a result, the two models exhibited 
significant increases of immobility time in forced swim test (FST) and tail 
suspension test (TST), whereas sucrose preference index and pup weight were 
significantly decreased. Both displayed depression-like behaviors, and CUMS was 
more obvious, which demonstrated by the lower levels of 5-hydroxytryptamine 
(5-HT) and higher hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis related mRNA 
expression (corticotropin releasing hormone, corticotropin releasing hormone 
receptor 1) in CMUS group than that in MS group. The gut microbiota in MS and 
CUMS groups were significantly different in terms of the relative abundances of 
Bacteroidetes, Firmicutes, Proteobacteria. In conclusion, MS model and CUMS 
model have different performance in behavior and physiology. The CUMS model 
showed more obvious parameter changes, which may be more suitable for PPD 
induced by various social environmental factors.

Copyright © 2022 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.bbrc.2022.09.063
PMID: 36191374 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper.


111. Evid Based Complement Alternat Med. 2022 Sep 22;2022:1041656. doi: 
10.1155/2022/1041656. eCollection 2022.

Involvement of Anti-Inflammatory and Stress Oxidative Markers in the 
Antidepressant-like Activity of Aloysia citriodora and Verbascoside on Mice with 
Bacterial Lipopolysaccharide- (LPS-) Induced Depression.

Gomes DB(1), Serpa PZ(1), Miorando D(2), Zanatta MEDC(2), Carteri CS(2), Somensi 
LB(3), Venzon L(4), Santos AC(4), França TCS(4), Silva LM(4), Roman Junior 
WA(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Postgraduate Program in Health Sciences, Community University of Chapecó 
Region, Chapecó 89809-900, SC, Brazil.
(2)Pharmacognosy Laboratory, Community University of Chapecó Region, Chapecó 
89809-900, SC, Brazil.
(3)Postgraduate Program in Development and Society, University of Alto Vale do 
Rio do Peixe, Caçador 89500-000, SC, Brazil.
(4)Program in Pharmaceutical Sciences, Chemical Pharmaceutical Research Nucleus 
(NIQFAR), University of Vale do Itajaí, Itajaí 89809-900, SC, Brazil.

Aloysia citriodora Palau is popularly used to treat nervous disorders. 
Experimental evidence has indicated that verbascoside (VBS) isolated from A. 
citriodora has pharmacological potential. In this study, we evaluated the 
antidepressant-like effects of a hydroalcoholic extract of A. citriodora (HEAc) 
and VBS against lipopolysaccharide- (LPS-) induced depressive-like behavior in 
mice. In the pretreatment protocol (performed to evaluate the preventive 
potential), mice were pretreated with HEAc (3, 30, or 300 mg/kg) or VBS 
(30 mg/kg) before the administration of LPS. In the posttreatment protocol 
(performed to evaluate the therapeutic potential), mice were initially 
administered LPS and were subsequently given HEAc (3, 30, or 300 mg/kg) or VBS 
(30 mg/kg). In both treatments, the mice were submitted to an open-field test 
and tail suspension test (TST) at 6 and 24 h after LPS administration. The 
posttreatment evaluation revealed that HEAc (30 or 300 mg/kg) and VBS produced 
an antidepressant-like effect, as indicated by a reduction in the time spent 
with no movement in the TST. Moreover, HEAc (30 or 300 mg/kg) was found to 
reduce interleukin-6 (IL-6) levels and N-acetyl-glycosaminidase activity in the 
hippocampus, increase glutathione (GSH) levels in the hippocampus and cortex, 
and enhance IL-10 in the cortex and, at a dose of 300 mg/kg, reduced 
myeloperoxidase activity in the cortex. Contrastingly, no comparable effects 
were detected in mice subjected to the pretreatment protocol. Administration of 
VBS similarly reduced the levels of IL-6 in the hippocampus and increased GSH 
levels in the cortex. Our observations indicate that both HEAc and VBS show 
promising antidepressant-like potential, which could be attributed to their 
beneficial effects in reducing neuroinflammatory processes and antioxidant 
effects in the central nervous system.

Copyright © 2022 Denise B. Gomes et al.

DOI: 10.1155/2022/1041656
PMCID: PMC9522501
PMID: 36185078

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that they have no conflicts 
of interest.


112. Front Behav Neurosci. 2022 Sep 12;16:941884. doi: 10.3389/fnbeh.2022.941884.
 eCollection 2022.

Early life maternal separation induces sex-specific antidepressant-like 
responses but has minimal effects on adult stress susceptibility in mice.

Baugher BJ(1), Sachs BD(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychological and Brain Sciences, Villanova University, 
Villanova, PA, United States.

Early life stress is known to increase the risk of depression and anxiety 
disorders, which are highly prevalent conditions that disproportionately affect 
women. However, the results of preclinical studies have been mixed, with some 
work suggesting that early life stress promotes anxiety-like behavior and/or 
increases susceptibility to subsequent stressors, and other research suggesting 
that early life stress reduces anxiety-like behavior and/or confers resilience 
to subsequent stress exposure. It is likely that factors such as sex and the 
timing and severity of early life and adult stress exposure dictate whether a 
particular early life experience promotes adaptive vs. maladaptive behavior 
later in life. Most work in this area has focused exclusively on males, but 
several sex differences in the effects of early life stress on subsequent stress 
susceptibility have been reported. The current study examined the impact of 
early life maternal separation on susceptibility to behavioral alterations 
induced by 3 days of variable stress in adulthood in male and female c57BL6 
mice. Our results indicate that 3 days of adult stress is sufficient to increase 
anxiety-like behavior in several paradigms and to increase immobility in the 
forced swim test. In contrast, a history of maternal separation reduces 
anxiety-like behavior in several tests, particularly in males. These findings 
could contribute to our understanding of sex differences in mental illness by 
demonstrating that males are more likely than females to display adaptive 
responses to mild early life stressors.

Copyright © 2022 Baugher and Sachs.

DOI: 10.3389/fnbeh.2022.941884
PMCID: PMC9510594
PMID: 36172469

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that the research was 
conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial relationships that could 
be construed as a potential conflict of interest.


113. J Biochem Mol Toxicol. 2023 Jan;37(1):e23225. doi: 10.1002/jbt.23225. Epub
2022  Sep 28.

Palmatine ameliorates LPS-induced HT-22 cells and mouse models of depression by 
regulating apoptosis and oxidative stress.

Pei H(1), Zeng J(1), He Z(1), Zong Y(1), Zhao Y(1), Li J(1), Chen W(1), Du 
R(1)(2)(3).

Author information:
(1)College of Chinese Medicinal Materials, Jilin Agricultural University, 
Changchun, China.
(2)Key Laboratory of Animal Production, Product Quality and Security, Ministry 
of Education of China, Changchun, China.
(3)Jilin Provincial Engineering Research Center for Efficient Breeding and 
Product Development of Sika Deer of China, Changchun, China.

Depression is one of the most common neuropsychiatric disorders that is 
characterized by low mood, lack of motivation, slow thinking, and recurrent 
suicidal thoughts. The mechanism of action of palmatine in depression has been 
rarely reported and remains unclear. The present study examined the 
neuroprotective effects of palmatine on lipopolysaccharide (LPS)-induced 
oxidative stress, apoptosis, and depression-like behavior. In this study, cell 
apoptosis was evaluated by CCK-8, flow cytometry, and Hoechst 33258 staining in 
LPS-induced HT-22 cells. Meanwhile, reactive oxygen species (ROS) and 
mitochondrial membrane potential were detected in vitro. In vivo, we 
investigated depressive-like behaviors in mice by an open field test (OFT) and 
elevated plus-maze test (EPM). Additionally, the levels of superoxide 
dismutases (SOD), TNF-α, IL-1β, and IL-6 were detected by enzyme-linked 
immunosorbent assay. The hematoxylin-eosin staining and TUNEL staining were used 
to evaluate the pathology of the hippocampus. The expression of Nrf2/HO-1 and 
BAX/Bcl-2 pathways in the hippocampus were assessed by Western blot analysis. 
Palmatine could significantly reduce apoptosis and ROS levels, and improve 
mitochondrial damage. Moreover, palmatine significantly improves movement time 
and central square crossing time in OFT, and improves open arms and movement 
time in EMP. And the levels of SOD, TNF-α, IL-1β, and IL-6 were significantly 
decreased after palmatine treatment. More importantly, palmatine improved 
neuronal apoptosis in the hippocampus, and depression through BAX/Bcl-2 and 
Nrf2/HO-1 signaling pathways. We provide evidence that palmatine further 
alleviates the depressive-like behavior of LPS-induced by improving apoptosis 
and oxidative stress.

© 2022 Wiley Periodicals LLC.

DOI: 10.1002/jbt.23225
PMID: 36169195 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


114. PeerJ. 2022 Sep 16;10:e14014. doi: 10.7717/peerj.14014. eCollection 2022.

Sex differences in peripheral monoamine transmitter and related hormone levels 
in chronic stress mice with a depression-like phenotype.

Chen Y(#)(1)(2), Cai W(#)(1)(2), Li C(1)(2), Su Z(1)(2), Guo Z(2), Li Z(2), Wang 
C(2), Xu F(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)School of Pharmaceutical Sciences, Southern Medical University, Guangzhou, 
China.
(2)Department of Clinical Pharmacology, Sixth People's Hospital South Campus, 
Shanghai Jiaotong University, Shanghai, China.
(#)Contributed equally

BACKGROUNDS: Chronic stress could induce depression-like phenotype in animal 
models. Previous data showed that sex differences exist after chronic stress 
model establishment, however, the detailed information about the difference of 
blood biochemical indexes is not clear. In this study, we aim to supply 
comparison of monoamine transmitters and related hormone markers in serum 
between male and female depressed mice, and in order to better understand the 
sex difference in transmitters and hormone levels in depression occurrence and 
development.
METHODS: Sixty C57BL/6 mice (both male and female) were divided into two groups 
by gender. Same gender mice were then divided randomly into the non-treated 
control group and chronic stress group which was exposed to 8 weeks of chronic 
unpredictable mild stress (CUMS). Depression-like behavior was assessed with 
open-field test and sucrose preference test. Blood sample was collected and 
monoamine transmitter and related hormone in serum were measured by ELISA.
RESULTS: The depression-like phenotype mice model was established successfully 
after 8 weeks of chronic stress. The locomotion activity scores in male stressed 
mice declined more than that in female stressed mice, while the exploratory 
behavior scores in female stressed mice declined more than that in male stressed 
mice. Compared to non-treated control group mice, mice in the chronic stress 
group in response to stress showed greater declines in monoamine transmitters 
(5-HT, dopamine, norepinephrine) and sex hormones (androgen, estrogen, oxytocin 
and prolactin), while stress hormones (adrenaline, corticosterone and ACTH) were 
significantly increased. The decrease of norepinephrine, androgen and estrogen 
in female stressed mice was greater than in male stressed mice, whereas the 5-HT 
and oxytocin in male stressed mice decreased more than in female stressed mice, 
and the corticosterone in male stressed mice increased more than in female 
stressed mice.
CONCLUSION: Sex differences of monoamine transmitter and related hormone levels 
in serum occurred in chronic stress induced depression-like phenotype mice 
model. It may provide a useful reference to guide precise antidepressant 
treatment in different gender population in clinical care.

©2022 Chen et al.

DOI: 10.7717/peerj.14014
PMCID: PMC9484450
PMID: 36132219 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare there are no competing 
interests.


115. J Ethnopharmacol. 2023 Jan 10;300:115719. doi: 10.1016/j.jep.2022.115719.
Epub  2022 Sep 17.

Saffron essential oil ameliorates CUMS-induced depression-like behavior in mice 
via the MAPK-CREB1-BDNF signaling pathway.

Chen Z(1), Gu J(2), Lin S(3), Xu Z(4), Xu H(5), Zhao J(6), Feng P(7), Tao Y(8), 
Chen S(9), Wang P(10).

Author information:
(1)College of Pharmaceutical Sciences, Zhejiang University of Technology, 
Hangzhou, 310014, People's Republic of China. Electronic address: 
chenziwei9804@163.com.
(2)College of Pharmaceutical Sciences, Zhejiang University of Technology, 
Hangzhou, 310014, People's Republic of China. Electronic address: 
jinpinggu@163.com.
(3)College of Pharmaceutical Sciences, Zhejiang University of Technology, 
Hangzhou, 310014, People's Republic of China; The First Hospital of Jiaxing, 
Jiaxing, 314001, People's Republic of China. Electronic address: 
531270368@qq.com.
(4)College of Pharmaceutical Sciences, Zhejiang University of Technology, 
Hangzhou, 310014, People's Republic of China; College of Pharmacy, Jiangxi 
Medical College, Shangrao, Jiangxi, 334000, People's Republic of China. 
Electronic address: cczyyxzj@163.com.
(5)College of Pharmaceutical Sciences, Zhejiang University of Technology, 
Hangzhou, 310014, People's Republic of China. Electronic address: 
2112007063@zjut.edu.cn.
(6)College of Pharmaceutical Sciences, Zhejiang University of Technology, 
Hangzhou, 310014, People's Republic of China. Electronic address: 
2112007214@zjut.edu.cn.
(7)College of Pharmaceutical Sciences, Zhejiang University of Technology, 
Hangzhou, 310014, People's Republic of China. Electronic address: 
fengpeishi@zjut.edu.cn.
(8)College of Pharmaceutical Sciences, Zhejiang University of Technology, 
Hangzhou, 310014, People's Republic of China. Electronic address: 
taoyi1985@zjut.edu.cn.
(9)College of Pharmaceutical Sciences, Zhejiang University of Technology, 
Hangzhou, 310014, People's Republic of China. Electronic address: 
chensuhong@zjut.edu.cn.
(10)College of Pharmaceutical Sciences, Zhejiang University of Technology, 
Hangzhou, 310014, People's Republic of China. Electronic address: 
wangping45@aliyun.com.

ETHNOPHARMACOLOGICAL RELEVANCE: Saffron, the dried stigma of Crocus sativus L., 
has a long history of use in the treatment of depression in traditional Chinese 
medicine and Islamic medicine. The unique aroma of saffron, primarily derived 
from its volatile oil, has been widely used by folk to mitigate anxiety and 
depression via sniffing because the aroma of saffron has a pleasant and 
invigorating effect.
AIM OF THE STUDY: This study aimed to investigate the antidepressant effect and 
the underlying mechanism of saffron essential oil (SEO) in mice exposed to 
chronic unpredictable mild stress (CUMS).
MATERIALS AND METHODS: In this study, compounds of SEO were identified using gas 
chromatography-mass spectrometry analysis, while network pharmacology was used 
to predict potential active compounds, antidepressant targets, and related 
signaling pathways of SEO. The CUMS depression model was further used to explore 
the therapeutic effect and possible mechanism of SEO. During the modeling 
period, mice were regularly administered fluoxetine (3.6 mg/kg, i.g.) or diluted 
SEO (2%, 4%, and 6% SEO, inhalation). The antidepressant and neuroprotective 
effects of SEO were evaluated by behavior tests (the open field test, the 
sucrose preference test, the tail suspension test, and the forced swimming 
test), hematoxylin-eosin staining, and Nissl staining. The enzyme-linked 
immunosorbent assay kits were used to measure dopamine (DA), 5-serotonin (5-HT), 
brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF), and γ-aminobutyric acid (GABA) levels 
in serum. The relative abundance of Raf1, MEK1, P-ERK1/2/ERK1/2, P-CREB1/CREB1, 
BDNF, and P-Trk B/Trk B in the hippocampus was determined using western blot 
(WB).
RESULTS: According to the network pharmacology analysis, seven active SEO 
compounds mediated 113 targets related to depression treatment, most of which 
were enriched in the 5-HT synapse, calcium signaling pathway, and cAMP signaling 
pathway. In vivo experiments indicated that fluoxetine and SEO improved 
depression-like behaviors in depressed mice. The levels of 5-HT, DA, BDNF, and 
GABA in serum increased significantly. Histopathological examinations revealed 
that fluoxetine and SEO ameliorated neuronal damage in the hippocampus. WB 
analysis showed that the relative expressions of Raf1, MEK1, P-ERK1/2/ERK1/2, 
P-CREB1/CREB1, BDNF, and P-Trk B/Trk B were significantly higher in the 
fluoxetine and SEO groups than in the CUMS group.
CONCLUSION: Overall, these findings suggest that SEO significantly alleviates 
the depressive symptoms in CUMS exposed mice and partially restores hippocampal 
neuronal damage. Meanwhile, the best efficacy was observed in 4% SEO. 
Furthermore, the antidepressant mechanism of SEO is primarily dependent on the 
regulation of the MAPK-CREB1-BDNF signaling pathway.

Copyright © 2022 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jep.2022.115719
PMID: 36126781 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper.


116. J Vis Exp. 2022 Jul 28;(185). doi: 10.3791/63803.

A Protocol for the Induction of Posttraumatic Stress-Disorder (PTSD)-like 
Behavior in Mice.

Preston G(1), Kozicz T(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Clinical Genomics, Mayo Clinic; preston.graeme@mayo.edu.
(2)Department of Clinical Genomics, Mayo Clinic.

Post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD) is a debilitating psychiatric condition 
that precipitates in ~10% of individuals exposed to a traumatic event (TE). 
Symptoms include recurrent and intrusive thoughts, sleep disturbance, 
hypervigilance, exaggerated startle, and reckless or destructive behavior. Given 
the complex and heterogeneous nature of the disease, animal models for PTSD-like 
symptomatology are of increasing interest to the field of PTSD research. Because 
resilience to PTSD-like symptomatology is an important epidemiologic aspect of 
PTSD, animal models that resolve vulnerable and resilient animals are of 
particular value. Due to the complex nature of the PTSD phenotype and the 
potential overlaps between PTSD-like behavior and behaviors associated with 
other stress-induced psychopathologies such as anxiety or depression, animal 
models that utilize multiple readouts for PTSD-like behavior are also of 
increasing value. We utilize a paradigm developed by Lebow et al. 2012 for the 
induction and identification of PTSD-like symptomatology in mice. This paradigm 
utilizes inescapable electric foot shock, administered in two decontextualized 
sessions over two consecutive days. Stressed mice perform four behavioral tests 
- dark/light transfer, marble burying, acoustic startle, and home cage activity 
- to generate five behavioral readouts of PTSD-like behavior: % risk assessment 
(%RA), % marbles buried (%MB), % prepulse inhibition (%PPI), latency to peak 
startle amplitude (LPSA), and % light phase activity (%LPA). PTSD-like 
symptomatology is characterized by decreased %RA, increased %MB, decreased %PPI, 
decreased LPSA, and increased %LPA. The 20% of animals displaying the most 
PTSD-like behavior in each test are awarded a certain number of points depending 
on the test, and animals scoring sufficient points are designated as PTSD-like, 
while animals scoring no points are designated PTSD-resilient. This paradigm 
identifies PTSD-like behavior in ~15% of animals, a rate comparable to that 
observed in humans. This protocol represents a robust and reproducible paradigm 
for the induction of PTSD-like behavior in mice.

DOI: 10.3791/63803
PMID: 35969057 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


117. Am J Transl Res. 2022 Jul 15;14(7):5014-5023. eCollection 2022.

Characterization of antidepressant activity of Saraca asoca flower (Roxb.) Wilde 
in mice subjected to acute restraint stress.

Shashikumara S(1), Purushotham K(1), Darshan CL(1), Kalal BS(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmacology, Chamarajanagar Institute of Medical Sciences 
Chamarajanagar 571313, Karnataka, India.
(2)Department of Pharmacology and Nutritional Sciences, University of Kentucky, 
College of Medicine Lexington Kentucky 40536, USA.

BACKGROUND: Long-term stress and chronic stress events play an important role in 
the etiology of depression. The study aimed to investigate the 
antidepressant-like effect of freshly prepared crude ethanolic extract of Saraca 
asoca flower (ESAF) in a mice model of acute restraint stress.
METHODOLOGY: Rhamnazin, Myricetin and Quercetin were analytically characterized 
through liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry and high-performance liquid 
chromatography from Saraca asoca flower in a 0.1% acetic acid fraction of 
ethanol. The antidepressant effect was tested by repeated administration of 
freshly prepared ESAF on mice subjected to repeated and different forms of 
stress induction for 2 hours every day in the morning and night for seven 
consecutive days. The antidepressant activity was measured by known behavioral 
animal models: forced swim test (FST) and tail suspension test (TST). At the end 
of the experiment, each group of mice was sacrificed by cervical dislocation, 
followed by an estimation of the biochemical data.
RESULTS: The oral administration of ESAF in doses of 50, 100, & 250 mg/kg for 
seven consecutive days gave a significant decrease in the time of immobility 
(P<0.05) and reversed the depression-like behavior induced by acute restraint 
methods and behavioral models. ESAF treated groups showed a significant increase 
in glutathione peroxidase (GSH-PX) activity in the hippocampus of the acutely 
restrained mice. In addition, ESAF 250 mg/kg reduced plasma corticosterone 
levels in mice subjected to different forms of acute restraint stress compared 
to other groups, comparable to the standard imipramine.
CONCLUSION: Our study showed the antidepressant activity of the ESAF. This 
effect may be attributed to the presence of antioxidant bioflavonoids namely, 
Rhamnazin, Myricetin and quercetin. Reduction in the plasma corticosterone 
levels along with an increase in the antioxidant enzymatic activity such as 
GSP-PX and SOD in the mice's hippocampus is the proposed molecular hypothesis 
for its neuroprotective mechanism.

AJTR Copyright © 2022.

PMCID: PMC9360865
PMID: 35958453

Conflict of interest statement: None.


118. J Neurophysiol. 2022 Sep 1;128(3):611-618. doi: 10.1152/jn.00247.2022. Epub
2022  Aug 10.

Maternal separation affects anxiety-like behavior beginning in adolescence and 
continuing through adulthood and related to Dnmt3a expression.

Wang X(1), Jiang L(1), Ma W(1), Zheng X(1), He E(1), Zhang B(1), Vashisth MK(1), 
Gong Z(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Anatomy, College of Preclinical Medicine, Dali University, 
Dali, China.

Early life stress, including maternal separation, is among one of the main 
causes of anxiety in adolescents. DNA methyltransferase 3A (Dnmt3a) is a key 
molecule that regulates DNA methylation and is found to be associated with 
anxiety-like behavior. It is not clear whether maternal separation affects 
anxiety levels in mice at different developmental stages or whether Dnmt3a plays 
a role in this process. Here, by using the open field test to explore the effect 
of maternal separation on anxiety-like behavior in mice of different ages, it 
was found that maternal separation could successfully induce anxiety-like 
behavior in adolescent mice, which continued through adulthood. By using Western 
blot, we found that the levels of Dnmt3a in the hippocampus and cortex showed 
different trends in maternal separation mice on postnatal day (P)17. 
Furthermore, by using immunostaining, we found that the expression levels of 
Dnmt3a in the cortex and hippocampus were significantly different and decreased 
to varying degrees with the age of mice, which was the reason for different 
trends. Our results provide an experimental basis for further development of 
anxiety/depression treatment programs more suitable for adolescence.NEW & 
NOTEWORTHY Most anxiety disorders begin in adolescence and continue through 
adulthood, and research on adolescent anxiety's pathogenesis and treatment 
options is insufficient. In this research, our results show that maternal 
separation can successfully induce anxiety-like behavior in adolescent mice that 
continues through adulthood, further accompanied by abnormal expression of 
Dnmt3a, which provides an experimental basis for further development of 
anxiety/depression treatment programs more suitable for adolescence.

DOI: 10.1152/jn.00247.2022
PMID: 35946792 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


119. Neurochem Res. 2022 Nov;47(11):3464-3475. doi: 10.1007/s11064-022-03707-9.
Epub  2022 Aug 8.

Effect of Epigallocatechin-3-gallate on Stress-Induced Depression in a Mouse 
Model: Role of Interleukin-1β and Brain-Derived Neurotrophic Factor.

Abdelmeguid NE(1), Hammad TM(1)(2), Abdel-Moneim AM(1), Salam SA(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Zoology, Faculty of Science, Alexandria University, Alexandria, 
21511, Egypt.
(2)Department of Medical Laboratory Technology, Faculty of Applied Health 
Sciences Technology, Pharos University, Alexandria, Egypt.
(3)Department of Zoology, Faculty of Science, Alexandria University, Alexandria, 
21511, Egypt. sherine.abdel.salam@alexu.edu.eg.

Epigallocatechin 3-gallate (EGCG) is a natural polyphenolic antioxidant in green 
tea leaves with well-known health-promoting properties. However, the influence 
of EGCG on a chronic animal model of depression remains to be fully 
investigated, and the details of the molecular and cellular changes are still 
unclear. Therefore, the present study aimed to investigate the antidepressant 
effect of EGCG in mice subjected to chronic unpredictable mild stress (CUMS). 
After eight consecutive weeks of CUMS, the mice were treated with EGCG 
(200 mg/kg b.w.) by oral gavage for two weeks. A forced swimming test (FST) was 
used to assess depressive symptoms. EGCG administration significantly alleviated 
CUMS-induced depression-like behavior in mice. EGCG also effectively decreased 
serum interleukin-1β (IL-1β) and increased the mRNA expression levels of 
brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) in the hippocampal CA3 region of CUMS 
mice. Furthermore, electron microscopic examination of CA3 neurons in CUMS mice 
showed morphological features of apoptosis, loss or disruption of the myelin 
sheath, and degenerating synapses. These neuronal injuries were diminished with 
the administration of EGCG. The treatment effect of EGCG in CUMS-induced 
behavioral alterations was comparable with that of clomipramine hydrochloride 
(Anafranil), a tricyclic antidepressant drug. In conclusion, our study 
demonstrates that the antidepressive action of EGCG involves downregulation of 
serum IL-1β, upregulation of BDNF mRNA in the hippocampus, and reduction of CA3 
neuronal lesions.

© 2022. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1007/s11064-022-03707-9
PMCID: PMC9546794
PMID: 35939172 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


120. Complex Psychiatry. 2021 Dec;7(3-4):71-79. doi: 10.1159/000518819. Epub 2021
Aug  3.

Ankyrin-G Heterozygous Knockout Mice Display Increased Sensitivity to Social 
Defeat Stress.

Cordner ZA(1), Khambadkone SG(1)(2), Zhu S(3), Bai J(3), Forti RR(3), Goodman 
E(1), Tamashiro KLK(1), Ross CA(1)(3)(4).

Author information:
(1)Behavioral Neuroscience, Department of Psychiatry & Behavioral Sciences, 
Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine, Baltimore, Maryland, USA.
(2)Cellular & Molecular Medicine Graduate Program, Johns Hopkins University 
School of Medicine, Baltimore, Maryland, USA.
(3)Division of Neurobiology, Department of Psychiatry & Behavioral Sciences, 
Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine, Baltimore, Maryland, USA.
(4)Departments of Neurology, Neuroscience, and Pharmacology, Johns Hopkins 
University School of Medicine, Baltimore, Maryland, USA.

The ANK3 locus has been repeatedly found to confer an increased risk for bipolar 
disorder. ANK3 codes for Ankyrin-G (Ank-G), a scaffold protein concentrated at 
axon initial segments, nodes of Ranvier, and dendritic spines, where it 
organizes voltage-gated sodium and potassium channels and cytoskeletal proteins. 
Mice with homozygous conditional knockout of Ank-G in the adult forebrain 
display hyperactivity and reduced anxiety-like behaviors, responsive to mood 
stabilizers. Their behavior switches to a depression-like phenotype when exposed 
to chronic social defeat stress (SDS), and then spontaneously reverts to 
baseline hyperactivity. Ank-G heterozygous conditional knockouts (Ank-G Het cKO) 
have not previously been characterized. Here, we describe the behavior of Ank-G 
Het cKO mice compared to littermate controls in the open field, elevated plus 
maze, and forced swim test, under both unstressed and stressed conditions. We 
found that Ank-G Het cKO is not significantly different from controls at 
baseline or after chronic SDS. The chronic stress-induced "depression-like" 
behavioral phenotype is persistent for at least 28 days and is responsive to 
fluoxetine. Strikingly, Ank-G Het cKO mice display increased sensitivity to a 
short duration SDS, which does not affect controls. The heterozygous Ank-G 
genetic model may provide novel insights into the role of Ank-G in the 
pathophysiology of stress sensitivity and "depression-like" phenotypes and could 
be useful for studying Ank-G-related gene-environment interactions.

Copyright © 2021 by S. Karger AG, Basel.

DOI: 10.1159/000518819
PMCID: PMC8740233
PMID: 35928299

Conflict of interest statement: Z.A.C. has no conflicts of interest to declare. 
S.G.K. has no conflicts of interest to declare. S.Z. has no conflicts of 
interest to declare. J.B. has no conflicts of interest to declare. R.F. has no 
conflicts of interest to declare. E.G. has no conflicts of interest to declare. 
K.L.K.T. has no conflicts of interest to declare. C.A.R. has no conflicts of 
interest to declare.121. J Integr Med. 2022 Sep;20(5):442-452. doi: 10.1016/j.joim.2022.07.003. Epub
2022  Jul 25.

Xiaoyao San, a Chinese herbal formula, ameliorates depression-like behavior in 
mice through the AdipoR1/AMPK/ACC pathway in hypothalamus.

Tang KR(1), Mo XW(1), Zhou XY(1), Chen YY(1), Liu DD(1), He LL(2), Ma QY(1), Li 
XJ(3), Chen JX(4).

Author information:
(1)Guangzhou Key Laboratory of Formula-Pattern of Traditional Chinese Medicine, 
School of Traditional Chinese Medicine, Jinan University, Guangzhou 510632, 
Guangdong Province, China.
(2)College of Pharmacy, Jinan University, Guangzhou 510632, Guangdong Province, 
China.
(3)Guangzhou Key Laboratory of Formula-Pattern of Traditional Chinese Medicine, 
School of Traditional Chinese Medicine, Jinan University, Guangzhou 510632, 
Guangdong Province, China. Electronic address: lixiaojuan@jnu.edu.cn.
(4)Guangzhou Key Laboratory of Formula-Pattern of Traditional Chinese Medicine, 
School of Traditional Chinese Medicine, Jinan University, Guangzhou 510632, 
Guangdong Province, China. Electronic address: chenjiaxu@hotmail.com.

OBJECTIVE: Depression and metabolic disorders have overlapping psychosocial and 
pathophysiological causes. Current research is focused on the possible role of 
adiponectin in regulating common biological mechanisms. Xiaoyao San (XYS), a 
classic Chinese medicine compound, has been widely used in the treatment of 
depression and can alleviate metabolic disorders such as lipid or glucose 
metabolism disorders. However, the ability of XYS to ameliorate depression-like 
behavior as well as metabolic dysfunction in mice and the underlying mechanisms 
are unclear.
METHODS: An in vivo animal model of depression was established by chronic social 
defeat stress (CSDS). XYS and fluoxetine were administered by gavage to the drug 
intervention group. Depression-like behaviors were analyzed by the social 
interaction test, open field test, forced swim test, and elevated plus maze 
test. Glucose levels were measured using the oral glucose tolerance test. The 
involvement of certain molecules was validated by immunofluorescence, 
histopathology, and Western blotting. In vitro, hypothalamic primary neurons 
were exposed to high glucose to induce neuronal damage, and the neuroprotective 
effect of XYS was evaluated by cell counting kit-8 assay. Immunofluorescence and 
Western blotting were used to evaluate the influences of XYS on adiponectin 
receptor 1 (AdipoR1), adenosine 5'-monophosphate-activated protein kinase 
(AMPK), acetyl-coenzyme A carboxylase (ACC) and other related proteins.
RESULTS: XYS ameliorated CSDS-induced depression-like behaviors and glucose 
tolerance impairment in mice and increased the level of serum adiponectin. XYS 
also restored Nissl bodies in hypothalamic neurons in mice that exhibited 
depression-like behaviors and decreased the degree of neuronal morphological 
damage. In vivo and in vitro studies indicated that XYS increased the expression 
of AdipoR1 in hypothalamic neurons.
CONCLUSION: Adiponectin may be a key regulator linking depression and metabolic 
disorders; regulation of the hypothalamic AdipoR1/AMPK/ACC pathway plays an 
important role in treatment of depression by XYS.

Copyright © 2022 Shanghai Changhai Hospital. Published by Elsevier B.V. All 
rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.joim.2022.07.003
PMID: 35906133 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper.


122. J Neurosci. 2022 Jul 26;42(36):6917-30. doi: 10.1523/JNEUROSCI.1424-21.2022.
 Online ahead of print.

Chronic loss of muscarinic M5 receptor function manifests disparate impairments 
in exploratory behavior in male and female mice despite common dopamine 
regulation.

Razidlo JA(1)(2), Fausner SML(1)(2), Ingebretson AE(1)(2), Wang LC(1)(2), 
Petersen CM(1)(2), Mirza S(1)(2), Swank IN, Alvarez VA(3), Lemos JC(4)(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Neuroscience, University of Minnesota, Minneapolis, MN.
(2)Medical Discovery Team on Addiction, University of Minnesota, Minneapolis, 
MN.
(3)Laboratory on Neurobiology of Compulsive Behaviors, Intramural Research 
Program, National Institute on Alcohol Abuse and Alcoholism, NIH, Bethesda, MD, 
USA.
(4)Department of Neuroscience, University of Minnesota, Minneapolis, MN 
jlemos@umn.edu.

There are five cloned muscarinic acetylcholine receptors (M1-M5). Of these, the 
muscarinic type 5 receptor (M5) is the only one localized to dopamine neurons in 
the ventral tegmental area and substantia nigra. Unlike M1-M4, the M5 receptor 
has relatively restricted expression in the brain, making it an attractive 
therapeutic target. Here we performed an in-depth characterization of 
M5-dependent potentiation of dopamine transmission in the nucleus accumbens and 
accompanying exploratory behaviors in male and female mice. We show that M5 
receptors potentiate dopamine transmission by acting directly on the terminals 
within the nucleus accumbens. Using the muscarinic agonist oxotremorine, we 
revealed a unique concentration-response curve and a sensitivity to repeated 
forced swim stress or restraint stress exposure. We found that constitutive 
deletion of M5 receptors reduced exploration of the center of an open field 
while at the same time impairing normal habituation only in male mice. In 
addition, M5 deletion reduced exploration of salient stimuli, especially under 
conditions of high novelty, yet had no effect on hedonia assayed using the 
sucrose preference test or on stress coping strategy assayed using the forced 
swim test. We conclude that M5 receptors are critical for both engaging with the 
environment and updating behavioral output in response to environment cues, 
specifically in male mice. A cardinal feature of mood and anxiety disorders is 
withdrawal from the environment. These data indicate that boosting M5 receptor 
activity may be a useful therapeutic target for ameliorating these symptoms of 
depression and anxiety.Significance Statement:The basic physiological and 
behavioral functions of the muscarinic M5 receptor remain understudied. 
Furthermore, its presence on dopamine neurons, relatively restricted expression 
in the brain, and recent crystallization make it an attractive target for 
therapeutic development. Yet, most preclinical studies of M5 receptor function 
have primarily focused on substance use disorders in male rodents. Here we 
characterized the role of M5 receptors in potentiating dopamine transmission in 
the nucleus accumbens, finding impaired functioning after stress exposure. 
Furthermore, we show that M5 receptors can modulate exploratory behavior in a 
sex-specific manner, without impacting hedonic behavior. These findings further 
illustrate the therapeutic potential of the M5 receptor, warranting further 
research in the context of treating mood disorders.

Copyright © 2022 the authors.

DOI: 10.1523/JNEUROSCI.1424-21.2022
PMCID: PMC9463982
PMID: 35896424

Conflict of interest statement: The authors have no conflict of interests to 
disclose.


123. Chin J Integr Med. 2023 Jun;29(6):490-499. doi: 10.1007/s11655-022-3308-2.
Epub  2022 Jul 26.

Meranzin Hydrate Improves Depression-Like Behaviors and Hypomotility via Ghrelin 
and Neurocircuitry.

Liu YL(1)(2), Xu JJ(1), Han LR(3), Liu XF(1), Lin MH(1), Wang Y(1), Xiao Z(1), 
Huang YK(4), Ren P(5), Huang X(6).

Author information:
(1)Institute of Traditional Chinese Medicine-Related Comorbid Depression, 
Nanjing University of Chinese Medicine, Nanjing, 210023, China.
(2)School of Pharmacy, Henan University of Chinese Medicine, Zhengzhou, 450046, 
China.
(3)Department of Outpatient, Xuzhou Central Hospital, Xuzhou, Shangdong 
Province, 221000, China.
(4)Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Women's Hospital School of Medicine, 
Zhejiang University, Hangzhou, 310006, China.
(5)Department of Geriatrics, Affiliated Hospital of Nanjing University of 
Chinese Medicine, Nanjing, 210023, China.
(6)Institute of Traditional Chinese Medicine-Related Comorbid Depression, 
Nanjing University of Chinese Medicine, Nanjing, 210023, China. 
tcmhuangx59@163.com.

OBJECTIVE: To investigate whether meranzin hydrate (MH) can alleviate 
depression-like behavior and hypomotility similar to Chaihu Shugan Powder (CSP), 
and further explore the potential common mechanisms.
METHODS: Totally 120 Spraque-Dawley rats were randomly divided into 5-8 groups 
including sham, vehicle, fluoxetine (20 mg/kg), mosapride (10 mg/kg), CSP (30 
g/kg), MH (9.18 mg/kg), [D-Lys3]-GHRP-6 (Dlys, 0.5 mg/kg), and MH+Dlys groups by 
a random number table, 8 rats in each group. And 32 mice were randomly divided 
into wild-type, MH (18 mg/kg), growth hormone secretagogue receptor-knockout 
(GHSR-KO), and GHSR+MH groups, 8 mice in each group. The forced swimming test 
(FST), open field test (OFT), tail suspension test (TST), gastric emptying (GE) 
test, and intestinal transit (IT) test were used to assess antidepressant and 
prokinetic (AP) effects after drug single administration for 30 min with 
absorbable identification in rats and mice, respectively. The protein expression 
levels of brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) and phosphorylated mammalian 
target of rapamycin (p-mTOR) in the hippocampus of rats were evaluated by 
Western blot. The differences in functional brain changes were determined via 
7.0 T functional magnetic resonance imaging-blood oxygen level-dependent 
(fMRI-BOLD).
RESULTS: MH treatment improved depression-like behavior (FST, OFT) and 
hypomotility (GE, IT) in the acute forced swimming (FS) rats (all P<0.05), and 
the effects are similar to the parent formula CSP. The ghrelin antagonist 
[D-Lys3]-GHRP-6 inhibited the effect of MH on FST and GE (P<0.05). Similarly, MH 
treatment also alleviated depression-like behavior (FST, TST) in the wild-type 
mice, however, no effects were found in the GHSR KO mice. Additionally, 
administration of MH significantly stimulated BDNF and p-mTOR protein 
expressions in the hippocampus (both P<0.01), which were also prevented by 
[D-Lys3]-GHRP-6 (P<0.01). Besides, 3 main BOLD foci following acute FS rats 
implicated activity in hippocampus-thalamus-basal ganglia (HTB) circuits. The 
[D-Lys3]-GHRP-6 synchronously inhibited BOLD HTB foci. As expected, prokinetic 
mosapride only had effects on the thalamus and basal ganglia, but not on the 
hippocampus. Within the HTB, the hippocampus is implicated in depression and FD.
CONCLUSIONS: MH accounts for part of AP effects of parent formula CSP in acute 
FS rats, mainly via ghrelin-related shared regulation coupled to BOLD signals in 
brain areas. This novel functionally connection of HTB following acute stress, 
treatment, and regulation highlights anti-depression unified theory.

© 2022. The Chinese Journal of Integrated Traditional and Western Medicine Press 
and Springer-Verlag GmbH Germany, part of Springer Nature.

DOI: 10.1007/s11655-022-3308-2
PMID: 35881212 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


124. Bull Exp Biol Med. 2022 Jul;173(3):326-329. doi: 10.1007/s10517-022-05543-x.
 Epub 2022 Jul 19.

Effects of Bioresonance Application in Mice with Depressive-Like Behavior.

Cabıoğlu MT(1), Aslan EL(2), Karabey SZ(3), Derdinne GG(4), Akyüz Ö(3).

Author information:
(1)Cyprus Ada Kent University, Gazimağusa, Cyprus. tugcab@gmail.com.
(2)Suhut Vocational School of Health Services, Medical Laboratory Techniques, 
Afyonkarahisar Health Sciences University, Afyonkarahisar, Turkey.
(3)Member of Scientific Advisory Board at Academy of Harmonical Frequency 
(Akademie der Harmonikalischen Frequenzanwendung), Munich, Germany.
(4)Private Lokman Hekim Akay Hospital, Ankara, Turkey.

We studied the effects of bioresonance application on mice with depressive-like 
behavior induced by stress. A chronic mild stress model was developed in mice to 
monitor the effects of bioresonance application. After that, behavioral tests 
were performed. In the forced swimming test, the animals of the long 
bioresonance therapy demonstrated shorter group immobility time in comparison 
with mice of the stress group and stress group without therapy (animals of this 
group were sacrificed at the same time point as therapy groups in order to 
reveal a possibility of spontaneously recover in animals after stress without 
therapy). In the tail suspension test, a decrease in immobility time was 
observed in the long bioresonance therapy group, stress group, and stress 
without therapy group. These changes in behavioral test results can indicate 
that the application of bioresonance in mice can be an effective method of 
treating depressive-like behavior, but these conclusions should be supported by 
additional experimental studies and the use of different frequencies.

© 2022. Springer Science+Business Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.

DOI: 10.1007/s10517-022-05543-x
PMID: 35852685 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


125. Physiol Behav. 2022 Oct 1;254:113916. doi: 10.1016/j.physbeh.2022.113916.
Epub  2022 Jul 16.

Intermittent voluntary wheel running promotes resilience to the negative 
consequences of repeated social defeat in mice.

Calpe-López C(1), Martínez-Caballero MA(1), García-Pardo MP(2), Aguilar MA(3).

Author information:
(1)Neurobehavioural Mechanisms and Endophenotypes of Addictive Behaviour 
Research Unit, Department of Psychobiology, University of Valencia, Valencia, 
Spain.
(2)Department of Psychology and Sociology, Faculty of Social Sciences, 
University of Zaragoza, Teruel, Spain.
(3)Neurobehavioural Mechanisms and Endophenotypes of Addictive Behaviour 
Research Unit, Department of Psychobiology, University of Valencia, Valencia, 
Spain. Electronic address: asuncion.aguilar@uv.es.

A novel approach to reduce the incidence of substance use disorders is to 
promote resilience to stress using environmental resources such as physical 
exercise. In the present study we test the hypothesis that Voluntary Wheel 
Running (VWR) during adolescence blocks the negative consequences of stress 
induced by intermittent repeated social defeat (IRSD). Four groups of adolescent 
male C57BL/6 mice were employed in the experiment; two groups were exposed to 
VWR (1 h, 3 days/week) from postnatal day (PND) 21 until the first social defeat 
(PND 47), while the remaining two groups did not have access to activity wheels 
(controls). On PND 47, 50, 53 and 56 mice, who had performed VWR, were exposed 
to an episode of social defeat by a resident aggressive mouse (VWR+IRSD group) 
or allowed to explore an empty cage (VWR+EXPL group). The same procedure was 
performed with control mice that had not undergone VWR (CONTROL+IRSD and 
CONTROL+EXPL groups). On PND 57, all the mice performed the Elevated Plus Maze 
(EPM), Hole-Board, Social Interaction, Tail Suspension and Splash tests. After 
an interval of 3 weeks, all mice underwent a conditioned place preference (CPP) 
procedure with 1 mg/kg of cocaine. Exposure to VWR prevented the negative 
consequences of social stress in the EPM, splash test and CPP, since the 
VWR+IRSD group did not display anxiety- or depression-like effects or the 
potentiation of cocaine reward observed in the Control+IRSD group. Our results 
support the idea that physical exercise promotes resilience to stress and 
represents an excellent target in drug abuse prevention.

Copyright © 2022. Published by Elsevier Inc.

DOI: 10.1016/j.physbeh.2022.113916
PMID: 35850205 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


126. Behav Brain Res. 2022 Sep 5;433:114006. doi: 10.1016/j.bbr.2022.114006. Epub
 2022 Jul 16.

Rosmarinic acid relieves LPS-induced sickness and depressive-like behaviors in 
mice by activating the BDNF/Nrf2 signaling and autophagy pathway.

Yu Y(1), Li Y(2), Qi K(3), Xu W(4), Wei Y(5).

Author information:
(1)College of Pharmacy, Fujian University of Traditional Chinese Medicine, 
Fuzhou 350122, China. Electronic address: 1426292801@qq.com.
(2)College of Pharmacy, Fujian University of Traditional Chinese Medicine, 
Fuzhou 350122, China. Electronic address: 2710910173@qq.com.
(3)College of Pharmacy, Fujian University of Traditional Chinese Medicine, 
Fuzhou 350122, China. Electronic address: kaimming@163.com.
(4)College of Pharmacy, Fujian University of Traditional Chinese Medicine, 
Fuzhou 350122, China. Electronic address: 2000017@fjtcm.edu.cn.
(5)College of Pharmacy, Fujian University of Traditional Chinese Medicine, 
Fuzhou 350122, China. Electronic address: 2007047@fjtcm.edu.cn.

Neuroinflammation is one of the main causes of sickness and depressive-like 
behavior. Rosmarinic acid (RA) has been shown to have a significant 
anti-neuroinflammatory effect. However, the protective effects and the 
underlying mechanism of RA on sickness and depressive-like behavior under 
conditions of neuroinflammation are still unclear.　In the present study,　we 
investigated the effects and　the underlying mechanism of RA on 
lipopolysaccharide (LPS)-treated mice with sickness behavior. The behavioral 
effects of LPS treatment and RA administration were assessed using behavioral 
tests including a sucrose preference test and an open field test. The 
neuroprotective effects of RA in conditions of neuroinflammatory injury were 
determined by HE staining, Nissl staining, and immunofluorescent staining. 
Moreover, its underlying mechanism was analyzed by using real-time PCR analysis, 
western blot, and immunofluorescent analysis. The results indicated that RA 
dramatically mitigated sickness behaviors and histologic brain damage in mice 
exposed to LPS. In addition, RA administration markedly promoted the expression 
of brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF)/erythroid 2-related factor 2 (Nrf2), 
the key regulatory proteins for Nrf2 activation (p21 and p62), the downstream 
antioxidant enzymes (HO-1, NQO1, GCLC), the autophagy-related proteins (LC3II 
and Beclin1), and mitochondrial respiratory enzyme genes (ME1, IDH1, 6-PGDH), 
while reducing the expression of pro-inflammatory genes (CD44, iNOS, TNFα, 
IL-1β). Moreover, the double-label immunofluorescent analysis revealed that RA 
increased the fluorescence intensity of LC3 mostly co-localized with neurons and 
co-expressed with Nrf2. Taken together, our research found that RA could 
effectively alleviate sickness behaviors and nerve injury caused by 
neuroinflammation, and its protective effects were mediated by the Nrf2 
signaling pathway, which reduced cellular oxidative stress, inflammation, 
mitochondrial respiratory function damage, and autophagy imbalance. Therefore, 
RA has the potential to prevent or treat sickness and depressive-like behaviors 
under conditions of neuroinflammation.

Copyright © 2022 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.bbr.2022.114006
PMID: 35843463 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


127. Physiol Behav. 2022 Oct 1;254:113913. doi: 10.1016/j.physbeh.2022.113913.
Epub  2022 Jul 12.

Effect of the dietary intake of fish oil on psycho-social behavioral disorder 
caused by social-defeat stress.

Otsuka A(1), Tamaya M(2), Toda A(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Life Science, Faculty of Science and Engineering, Kindai 
University, Osaka, 577-8502, Japan.. Electronic address: airi@life.kindai.ac.jp.
(2)Department of Life Science, Faculty of Science and Engineering, Kindai 
University, Osaka, 577-8502, Japan.

Exposure to psychosocial stress is a risk factor for human diseases such as 
depression. Social defeat stress (SDS) is a well-known rodent model of human 
psychosocial stress, and animals exposed to SDS show social avoidance behavior. 
Fish oil, which is rich in docosahexaenoic acid (DHA) and eicosapentaenoic acid 
(EPA), is expected to decrease the risk of depressive disorders. In this study, 
we determined whether fish oil affects the social behavior of SDS-exposed mice 
and measured serotonin levels and expression of genes related to tryptophan 
(TRP) metabolism in the hippocampus. The experimental animals were fed a diet 
containing fish oil during SDS exposure. For the fish oil treatment, 
experimental mice were fed a diet containing fish oil at low (L-FO), middle 
(M-FO), and high (H-FO) concentrations. The control group was supplemented with 
an equivalent amount of canola oil (no fish oil: N-FO). After the SDS protocol, 
we performed a social interaction test and assessed the sociality of 
experimental mice. In the N-FO group, SDS-exposed mice showed negative social 
interactions compared with non-stressed mice. The L-FO and H-FO groups showed 
negative social interactions after SDS exposure; however, the M-FO group did not 
exhibit negative social behavior. The serotonin levels of SDS-exposed mice were 
lower than those of non-stressed mice in the N-FO group. In contrast with these 
results in the N-FO group, there was no difference in serotonin levels between 
SDS-exposed and non-stressed mice in the FO groups. In addition, the expression 
of genes related to TRP metabolism in SDS-exposed mice increased in the N-FO 
group, but not in the FO group. These results suggest that fish oil improves the 
psychosocial behavioral disorders caused by SDS. This improvement could be 
explained by the increase in serotonin synthesis in the hippocampus.

Copyright © 2022 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.physbeh.2022.113913
PMID: 35835180 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


128. Neurochem Res. 2022 Oct;47(10):3126-3136. doi: 10.1007/s11064-022-03668-z.
Epub  2022 Jul 8.

Study on Antidepressant Effect and Mechanism of Crocin Mediated by the mTOR 
Signaling Pathway.

Wang Y(1), Zhou S(1), Song X(1), Ding S(1), Wang B(1), Wen J(1), Chen C(2).

Author information:
(1)College of Chemical and Biological Engineering, Yichun University, Yichun, 
336000, China.
(2)College of Chemical and Biological Engineering, Yichun University, Yichun, 
336000, China. chenchunlinycxy@163.com.

Crocin is a monomer of Chinese traditional herbs extracted from saffron, 
relieving depression-like behavior. However, its underlying mechanism of action 
remains unclear. Herein, we explored whether crocin's antidepressant effect 
depended on the mammalian target of the rapamycin (mTOR) signaling pathway. The 
model of PC12 cells injury was established by corticosterone, the changes in 
cell survival rate were tested by the CCK-8 method, and the changes in cellular 
morphology were observed under a fluorescence microscope. The depression model 
was established by chronic unpredictable mild stress (CUMS), and its 
antidepressant effect was estimated by open field test (OFT), forced swimming 
test (FST), and tail suspension test (TST). Western blot was used to monitor the 
protein expression. The results showed that crocin could effectively improve 
cell survival rate and cellular synaptic growth, alleviate the depressive 
behavior of CUMS mice, and promote the expression of BDNF, P-mTOR, P-ERK, and 
PSD95. However, when rapamycin was pretreated, the antidepressant effects of 
crocin were inhibited. In summary, crocin plays a significant antidepressant 
effect. After pretreatment with rapamycin, the anti-depression effect of crocin 
was significantly inhibited. It is suggested that the mechanism of the 
anti-depression effect of crocin may be related to the mTOR signaling pathway.

© 2022. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Science+Business 
Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.

DOI: 10.1007/s11064-022-03668-z
PMCID: PMC9282155
PMID: 35804209 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors have declared that no competing 
interest exists.


129. Front Behav Neurosci. 2022 Jun 7;16:863195. doi: 10.3389/fnbeh.2022.863195. 
eCollection 2022.

Limbic Responses Following Shock Wave Exposure in Male and Female Mice.

McNamara EH(1), Tucker LB(1)(2), Liu J(1), Fu AH(1)(2), Kim Y(1)(2), Vu PA(1), 
McCabe JT(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Anatomy, Physiology and Genetics, Uniformed Services University 
of the Health Sciences, Bethesda, MD, United States.
(2)Pre-Clinical Studies Core, Center for Neuroscience and Regenerative Medicine, 
Henry M. Jackson Foundation, Bethesda, MD, United States.

Blast traumatic brain injury (bTBI) presents a serious threat to military 
personnel and often results in psychiatric conditions related to limbic system 
dysfunction. In this study, the functional outcomes for anxiety- and 
depressive-like behaviors and neuronal activation were evaluated in male and 
female mice after exposure to an Advanced Blast Simulator (ABS) shock wave. Mice 
were placed in a ventrally exposed orientation inside of the ABS test section 
and received primary and tertiary shock wave insults of approximately 15 psi 
peak pressure. Evans blue staining indicated cases of blood-brain barrier breach 
in the superficial cerebral cortex four, but not 24 h after blast, but the 
severity was variable. Behavioral testing with the elevated plus maze (EPM) or 
elevated zero maze (EZM), sucrose preference test (SPT), and tail suspension 
test (TST) or forced swim test (FST) were conducted 8 days-3.5 weeks after shock 
wave exposure. There was a sex difference, but no injury effect, for distance 
travelled in the EZM where female mice travelled significantly farther than 
males. The SPT and FST did not indicate group differences; however, injured mice 
were less immobile than sham mice during the TST; possibly indicating more 
agitated behavior. In a separate cohort of animals, the expression of the 
immediate early gene, c-Fos, was detected 4 h after undergoing bTBI or sham 
procedures. No differences in c-Fos expression were found in the cerebral 
cortex, but female mice in general displayed enhanced c-Fos activation in the 
paraventricular nucleus of the thalamus (PVT) compared to male mice. In the 
amygdala, more c-Fos-positive cells were observed in injured animals compared to 
sham mice. The observed sex differences in the PVT and c-Fos activation in the 
amygdala may correlate with the reported hyperactivity of females post-injury. 
This study demonstrates, albeit with mild effects, behavioral and neuronal 
activation correlates in female rodents after blast injury that could be 
relevant to the incidence of increased post-traumatic stress disorder in women.

Copyright © 2022 McNamara, Tucker, Liu, Fu, Kim, Vu and McCabe.

DOI: 10.3389/fnbeh.2022.863195
PMCID: PMC9210954
PMID: 35747840

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that the research was 
conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial relationships that could 
be construed as a potential conflict of interest.


130. Microorganisms. 2022 May 24;10(6):1077. doi: 10.3390/microorganisms10061077.

Resilience and the Gut Microbiome: Insights from Chronically Socially Stressed 
Wild-Type Mice.

Dos Santos Guilherme M(1), Valeri F(1), Winter J(2), Müller MB(1)(3), Schwiertz 
A(4), Endres K(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychiatry and Psychotherapy, University Medical Center, 
Johannes Gutenberg University Mainz, 55131 Mainz, Germany.
(2)Institute for Human Genetics, University Medical Center, Johannes Gutenberg 
University Mainz, 55131 Mainz, Germany.
(3)Leibniz Institute for Resilience Research (LIR), 55122 Mainz, Germany.
(4)MVZ Institute fuer Mikrooekologie GmbH, 35745 Herborn, Germany.

The microbiome is an important player within physiological homeostasis of the 
body but also in pathophysiological derailments. Chronic social stress is a 
challenge to the organism, which results in psychological illnesses such as 
depression in some individuals and can be counterbalanced by others, namely 
resilient individuals. In this study, we wanted to elucidate the potential 
contribution of the microbiome to promote resilience. Male mice were subjected 
to the classical chronic social defeat paradigm. Defeated or undefeated mice 
were either controls (receiving normal drinking water) or pre-treated with 
antibiotics or probiotics. Following social defeat, resilient behavior was 
assessed by means of the social interaction test. Neither depletion nor 
probiotic-shifted alteration of the microbiome influenced stress-associated 
behavioral outcomes. Nevertheless, clear changes in microbiota composition due 
to the defeat stress were observed such as elevated Bacteroides spp. This 
stress-induced increase in Bacteroides in male mice could be confirmed in a 
related social stress paradigm (instable social hierarchy) in females. This 
indicates that while manipulation of the microbiome via the antibiotics- and 
probiotics-treatment regime used here has no direct impact on modulating 
individual stress susceptibility in rodents, it clearly affects the microbiome 
in the second line and in a sex-independent manner regarding Bacteroides.

DOI: 10.3390/microorganisms10061077
PMCID: PMC9231072
PMID: 35744594

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest. The 
funders had no role in the design of the study; in the collection, analyses, or 
interpretation of data; in the writing of the manuscript, or in the decision to 
publish the results.


131. Neuropharmacology. 2022 Sep 1;215:109168. doi:
10.1016/j.neuropharm.2022.109168.  Epub 2022 Jun 17.

Contextual generalization of social stress learning is modulated by orexin 
receptors in basolateral amygdala.

Yaeger JDW(1), Krupp KT(2), Summers TR(3), Summers CH(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Biology, University of South Dakota, Vermillion, SD, 57069, 
USA; Neuroscience Group, Division of Basic Biomedical Sciences, Sanford School 
of Medicine, University of South Dakota, Vermillion, SD, 57069, USA; Veterans 
Affairs Research Service, Sioux Falls VA Health Care System, Sioux Falls, SD, 
57105, USA; Pediatrics and Rare Diseases Group, Sanford Research, Sioux Falls, 
SD, 57104, USA.
(2)Department of Biology, University of South Dakota, Vermillion, SD, 57069, 
USA; Neuroscience Group, Division of Basic Biomedical Sciences, Sanford School 
of Medicine, University of South Dakota, Vermillion, SD, 57069, USA.
(3)Department of Biology, University of South Dakota, Vermillion, SD, 57069, 
USA; Neuroscience Group, Division of Basic Biomedical Sciences, Sanford School 
of Medicine, University of South Dakota, Vermillion, SD, 57069, USA; Veterans 
Affairs Research Service, Sioux Falls VA Health Care System, Sioux Falls, SD, 
57105, USA.
(4)Department of Biology, University of South Dakota, Vermillion, SD, 57069, 
USA; Neuroscience Group, Division of Basic Biomedical Sciences, Sanford School 
of Medicine, University of South Dakota, Vermillion, SD, 57069, USA; Veterans 
Affairs Research Service, Sioux Falls VA Health Care System, Sioux Falls, SD, 
57105, USA. Electronic address: cliff@usd.edu.

Fear-associated memories and behavior are often expressed in 
contexts/environments distinctively different from those in which they are 
created. This generalization process contributes to psychological disorders, 
particularly PTSD. Stress-related neurocircuits in the basolateral amygdala 
(BLA) receive inputs from hypothalamic orexin (Orx) neurons, which mediate 
neuronal activity by targeting orexin 1 (Orx1R) and orexin 2 (Orx2R) receptors 
via opposing functions. In BLA, inhibition of Orx1R or activation of Orx2R 
ameliorate stress responsiveness and behavior. We discovered that most Orx1R+ 
cells also express CamKIIα, while a majority of Orx2R+ cells are colocalized 
with GAD67. Further, Orx1R gene Hcrtr1 expression was positively correlated, and 
Orx2R gene Hcrtr2 expression was negatively correlated, with freezing in a 
phenotype-dependent fashion (Escape vs Stay) in the Stress Alternatives Model 
(SAM). The SAM consists of 4-days of social interaction between test mice and 
novel larger aggressors. Exits positioned at opposite ends of the SAM oval arena 
provide opportunities to actively avoid aggression. By Day 2, mice commit to 
behavioral phenotypes: Escape or Stay. Pharmacologically manipulating Orx 
receptor activity in the BLA, before Day 3 of the SAM, was followed with 
standard tests of anxiety: Open Field (OF) and Elevated Plus Maze (EPM). In Stay 
mice, freezing in response to social conflict and locomotion during SAM 
interaction (not home cage locomotion) were generalized to OF, and blocked by 
intra-BLA Orx1R antagonism, but not Orx2R antagonism. Moreover, patterns of 
social avoidance for Escape and Stay mice were recapitulated in OF, with 
generalization mediated by Orx1R and Orx2R antagonism, plus Orx2R stimulation.

Copyright © 2022 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Ltd.. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.neuropharm.2022.109168
PMCID: PMC9285878
PMID: 35724928 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
have nothing to disclose.


132. Front Pharmacol. 2022 Jun 2;13:893283. doi: 10.3389/fphar.2022.893283. 
eCollection 2022.

Effects of Huolisu Oral Solution on Depression-Like Behavior in Rats: 
Neurotransmitter and HPA Axis.

Xiao M(1), Xie K(2), Yuan L(2), Wang J(3), Liu X(4), Chen Z(5).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmacy, West China Hospital, Sichuan University, Chengdu, 
China.
(2)Chengdu Di'ao Group Tianfu Pharmaceutical Group Co., Ltd., Chengdu, China.
(3)Department of TCM Pharmacy, Chengdu Integrated TCM&Western Medicine Hospital, 
Chengdu, China.
(4)Department of Orthopaedic Surgery, The Children's Hospital Chongqing Medical 
University, Chongqing, China.
(5)Key Laboratory of Drug-Targeting and Drug Delivery System of the Education 
Ministry and Sichuan Province, Sichuan Engineering Laboratory for Plant-Sourced 
Drug and Sichuan Research Center for Drug Precision Industrial Technology, West 
China School of Pharmacy, Sichuan University, Chongqing, China.

Background: Depression is a common mental disorder, and its morbidity rate is 
expected to rank second among all mental disorders by 2020. Hence, traditional 
Chinese medicines gradually attract the attention of many researchers because of 
their various targets and low toxicity. Huolisu oral solution (HLS) is a Chinese 
medicine compound preparation, which is present in the Chinese Pharmacopoeia. It 
is used clinically mainly for the treatment of neurasthenia, perimenopausal 
syndrome, and insomnia, or depression associated with cerebrovascular disease. 
Despite the fact that HLS has been used as an antidepressant in clinics, the 
underlying mechanism is still an untouched domain. To provide a theoretical 
basis for the clinical application, a series of assessment methods, such as the 
tail suspension test (TST), forced swim test (FST), and locomotor activity test 
in mice and rat models of chronic unpredictable mild stress (CUMS), have been 
conducted in our study. Objective: The aim of the study was to explore the 
antidepressive effect and mechanism of HLS. Methods: CUMS was induced in rats to 
simulate a depression-like behavior. Neurotransmitters and hormones were 
detected by enzyme-link immunosorbent assay (ELISA). Pathomorphology examination 
of the hippocampus was obtained by using the TSView 7 image analysis system. The 
active ingredients of HLS were also determined by high-performance liquid 
chromatography (HPLC). Results: HLS could alleviate the depression-like behavior 
of the model rats. Biochemical analysis showed that HLS enhanced the levels of 
5-hydroxytryptamine (5-HT), norepinephrine (NE), and dopamine (DA) in the 
hippocampus and diminished these in the serum of the CUMS rats. HLS could also 
decrease the concentration of corticosterone (CORT), adrenocorticotropic hormone 
(ACTH), and β-endorphin (β-EP) in blood. The pathohistological examination 
revealed that the hippocampus and adrenal gland were improved after treatment 
with HLS. Conclusions: This study concluded that HLS could alleviate 
depression-like behaviors in the rats exposed to CUMS, and the potential 
mechanism may be related to the regulation of the monoamine neurotransmitters, 
the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis, and the β-EP. These findings hint 
that HLS is likely to be a potentially effective agent for treating depression.

Copyright © 2022 Xiao, Xie, Yuan, Wang, Liu and Chen.

DOI: 10.3389/fphar.2022.893283
PMCID: PMC9201915
PMID: 35721112

Conflict of interest statement: Authors KX and LY are employed by Diao Group 
Tianfu Pharmaceutical Group Co, Ltd. The remaining authors declare that the 
research was conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial 
relationships that could be construed as a potential conflict of interest.


133. Front Nutr. 2022 Jun 2;9:882175. doi: 10.3389/fnut.2022.882175. eCollection 
2022.

Tilapia Skin Peptides Ameliorate Cyclophosphamide-Induced Anxiety- and 
Depression-Like Behavior via Improving Oxidative Stress, Neuroinflammation, 
Neuron Apoptosis, and Neurogenesis in Mice.

Zhao YT(1), Yin H(1), Hu C(2), Zeng J(1), Zhang S(1), Chen S(1), Zheng W(1), Li 
M(1), Jin L(3), Liu Y(1), Wu W(4), Liu S(1).

Author information:
(1)Guangdong Province Engineering Laboratory for Marine Biological Products, 
Guangdong Provincial Key Laboratory of Aquatic Product Processing and Safety, 
College of Food Science and Technology, Modern Biochemistry Experimental Center, 
Guangdong Ocean University, Zhanjiang, China.
(2)Department of Biology, Guangdong Medical University, Zhanjiang, China.
(3)State Key Laboratory of Pharmaceutical Biotechnology, Department of Medicine, 
The University of Hong Kong, Hong Kong, Hong Kong SAR, China.
(4)Institute of Agricultural Products Processing and Nuclear Agricultural 
Technology, Hubei Academy of Agricultural Sciences, Wuhan, China.

Anxiety- and depression-like behavior following chemotherapy treatment occurs in 
cancer patients with high probability and no specific therapeutics are available 
for treatment and prevention of this complication. Here, tilapia skin peptides 
(TSP), a novel enzymatically hydrolyzed bioactive peptide mixture, obtained from 
tilapia (Oreochromis mossambicus) scraps, were studied on cyclophosphamide 
(CP)-induced anxiety- and depression-like behavior in mice. Mice were received 
intraperitoneal injection of CP for 2 weeks, while TSP was administered for 4 
weeks. After the end of the animal experiment, behavioral, biochemical, and 
molecular tests were carried out. The mice decreased preference for sugar water, 
increased immobility time in the forced swimming and tail suspension test, and 
decreased travel distance in the open field test in the Model group, compared 
with the Control group. Abnormal changes in behavioral tests were significantly 
improved after the TSP treatment. Additionally, abnormalities on superoxide 
dismutase, malondialdehyde, glutathione peroxidase were rescued by 
administration of 1000 mg/kg/d TSP in mice than that of the Model group. TSP has 
normalized the expression of Iba-1 and the levels of TNF-α and IL-1β in the 
hippocampus of mice, which indicated that TSP could observably ameliorate 
neuroinflammatory response in the hippocampus of mice. TSP ameliorated the 
apoptosis of hippocampal neurons of CA1 and CA3 regions in the TSP group vs. the 
Model group. The number of doublecortin positive cells was drastically increased 
by administering 1000 mg/kg/d TSP in mice vs. the Model group. Furthermore, TSP 
reversed the Nrf2/HO-1 signaling pathway, BDNF/TrkB/CREB signaling pathway, and 
reduced the Bcl-2/Bax/caspase-3 apoptosis pathway. In conclusion, TSP could 
restore CP-induced anxiety- and depression-like behavior via improving oxidative 
stress, neuroinflammation, neuron apoptosis, and neurogenesis in mice 
hippocampus.

Copyright © 2022 Zhao, Yin, Hu, Zeng, Zhang, Chen, Zheng, Li, Jin, Liu, Wu and 
Liu.

DOI: 10.3389/fnut.2022.882175
PMCID: PMC9201437
PMID: 35719151

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that the research was 
conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial relationships that could 
be construed as a potential conflict of interest.


134. Chin Med. 2022 Jun 6;17(1):65. doi: 10.1186/s13020-022-00609-4.

Persimmon leaf extract alleviates chronic social defeat stress-induced 
depressive-like behaviors by preventing dendritic spine loss via inhibition of 
serotonin reuptake in mice.

Yu H(#)(1), Shao S(#)(2), Xu J(#)(3), Guo H(4), Zhong Z(5), Xu J(6).

Author information:
(1)Guangdong Provincial Key Laboratory of New Drug Screening, School of 
Pharmaceutical Sciences, Southern Medical University, Guangzhou, 510515, China.
(2)Macau Centre for Research and Development in Chinese Medicine, Institute of 
Chinese Medical Sciences, University of Macau, Macao, 999078, SAR, China.
(3)Department of Neurobiology, School of Basic Medical Sciences, Southern 
Medical University, Guangzhou, 510515, China.
(4)Hutchison Whampoa Guangzhou Baiyunshan Chinese Medicine Co., Ltd, Guangzhou, 
510515, China.
(5)Macau Centre for Research and Development in Chinese Medicine, Institute of 
Chinese Medical Sciences, University of Macau, Macao, 999078, SAR, China. 
zhangfengzhong@um.edu.mo.
(6)Guangdong Provincial Key Laboratory of New Drug Screening, School of 
Pharmaceutical Sciences, Southern Medical University, Guangzhou, 510515, China. 
jpx@smu.edu.cn.
(#)Contributed equally

BACKGROUND: Fresh or dried Persimmon leaves (Diospyros kaki Thunb.) exhibit 
preventive effects on cardiovascular and cerebrovascular diseases. However, 
their antidepressant effects and underlying mechanisms are unclear. Thus, we 
investigated mechanisms responsible for Persimmon leaf extract (PLE) activity on 
chronic social defeat stress (CSDS)-induced depressive-like behaviors in mice.
METHODS: CSDS was used as a mouse model of depression. We performed the sucrose 
preference test (SPT), forced swim test (FST), and tail suspension test (TST) to 
identify depressive-like behavior. Spine density and dendritic morphology were 
assessed using Golgi staining. Neurochemicals were quantified by microdialysis, 
doublecortin by immunofluorescence, and cAMP using an ELISA kit. Finally, the 
levels of cortical proteins of phosphorylated cAMP-response element binding 
protein (CREB), brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF), postsynaptic density 
synapsin-1 and protein 95 (PSD95) were quantified by western blot. 16S rRNA gene 
sequencing was used to detect fecal microbiota.
RESULTS: Treatment of CSDS-subjected mice with PLE (30.0-60.0 mg/kg, i.g.) 
enhanced sucrose preference, decreased immobility times in the TST and FST but 
did not affect locomotor activity. Furthermore, persistent social defeat stress 
decreased dendritic spine density and dendritic length in the brain, as well as 
decreased PSD95 and synapsin-1 expression. PLE, interestingly, inhibited 
dendritic spine loss and increased synaptic protein levels. PLE also increased 
brain levels of 5-HT, cAMP, phosphorylated (p)-CREB, BDNF, PSD95, and synapsin-1 
in mice subjected to CSDS. Furthermore, PLE increased their 
doublecortin-positive cell count in the hippocampal dentate gyrus. CSDS mice 
represented a distinct fecal microbiota cluster which differed compared with 
normal C57BL/6J mice, and the phenotype was rescued by PLE.
CONCLUSIONS: PLE alleviated CSDS-induced depressive behaviors and spinal damage 
by suppressing serotonin reuptake and activating the cAMP/CREB/BDNF signaling 
pathway. Simultaneously, PLE influenced the composition of the fecal microbiota 
in CSDS-subjected mice.

© 2022. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1186/s13020-022-00609-4
PMCID: PMC9172164
PMID: 35668445

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that they have no competing 
interests.


135. Front Psychiatry. 2022 May 19;13:855810. doi: 10.3389/fpsyt.2022.855810. 
eCollection 2022.

Sirtuin Type 1 Mediates the Antidepressant Effect of S-Ketamine in a Chronic 
Unpredictable Stress Model.

Hou L(1), Miao J(2), Meng H(1), Liu X(3), Wang D(3), Tan Y(3), Li C(3).

Author information:
(1)Research Center for Sectional and Imaging Anatomy, Department of Anatomy and 
Neurobiology, School of Basic Medicine, Cheeloo College of Medicine, Shandong 
University, Jinan, China.
(2)Research Center for Sectional and Imaging Anatomy, Department of Anatomy and 
Neurobiology, School of Clinical Medicine, Cheeloo College of Medicine, Shandong 
University, Jinan, China.
(3)Department of Anesthesiology, The Second Hospital of Shandong University, 
Jinan, China.

BACKGROUND: Major depressive disorder (MDD) refers to a mental disease with 
complex pathogenesis and treatment mechanism. S-ketamine exhibited high 
effectiveness in treating MDD. However, the pharmacological activity of 
S-ketamine has not been reported yet.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: In this study, depression-like characteristics were 
induced by chronic unpredictable stress (CUS). After S-ketamine (15 mg/kg) was 
intraperitoneally injected, the behaviors of mice were tested by conducting 
open-field test, elevated plus maze test, tail suspension test, and forced 
swimming test. Bilateral injection of sirtuin type 1 (SIRT1) inhibitor EX-527 
was injected into the medial prefrontal cortex (mPFC) to upregulate the SIRT1 
expression. The expression of SIRT1 and brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) 
was detected by conducting Western blot and immunofluorescence assays. 
Meanwhile, the synaptic ultrastructure was detected by transmission electron 
microscopy.
RESULTS: In this study, the mice showed depression-like behavior in a series of 
behavioral tests. After the treatment with S-ketamine, the depression-like 
behavior stopped. Further, the synaptic ultrastructure in mPFC, including the 
decreased curvature of the post synaptic density and thinning of the 
postsynaptic density, improved after the S-ketamine treatment. Moreover, we 
found that S-ketamine had the possibility of spontaneous binding with SIRT1 at 
the molecular level and reversed CUS-induced SIRT1 reduction. Meanwhile, a 
positive relationship between SIRT1 and BDNF expression in mPFC and SIRT1 
inhibitor limited the role of S-ketamine in reducing the depression-like 
behavior and increasing the BDNF level.
CONCLUSION: S-ketamine upregulated the SIRT1-mediated BDNF in mPFC and reversed 
the synaptic structural defects caused by CUS. SIRT1 is a mediator of S-ketamine 
in alleviating depression-like behavior.

Copyright © 2022 Hou, Miao, Meng, Liu, Wang, Tan and Li.

DOI: 10.3389/fpsyt.2022.855810
PMCID: PMC9160425
PMID: 35664490

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that the research was 
conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial relationships that could 
be construed as a potential conflict of interest.


136. J Nutr Biochem. 2022 Sep;107:109055. doi: 10.1016/j.jnutbio.2022.109055.
Epub  2022 May 26.

Alteration of sweet taste receptor expression in circumvallate papillae of mice 
with decreased sweet taste preference induced by social defeat stress.

Takahata Y(1), Yoshimoto W(1), Kuwagaki E(1), Yamada Y(1), Nagasawa K(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Environmental Biochemistry, Division of Biological Sciences, 
Kyoto Pharmaceutical University, Kyoto, Japan.
(2)Department of Environmental Biochemistry, Division of Biological Sciences, 
Kyoto Pharmaceutical University, Kyoto, Japan. Electronic address: 
nagasawa@mb.kyoto-phu.ac.jp.

Anhedonia is a key diagnostic symptom and central feature of depression 
symptomatology, but the underlying mechanism remains unknown. In this study, we 
investigated whether the decrease of sweet taste preference, anhedonia-like 
behavior in experimental animals, was accompanied by alteration of sweet taste 
receptor expression in circumvallate papillae (CP) of social defeat stress 
(SDS)-subjected mice. By subjecting to 10-d SDS, male BALB/c and C57BL/6J mice 
with decreased sociability in a social interaction test were defined as 
SDS-susceptible ones, and they exhibited a depressive-like behavior in a forced 
swim test. In SDS-susceptible BALB/c mice, a two-bottle choice test with a 
sucrose solution revealed a reduction of sweet taste preference, while 
expression of sweet taste receptors, T1R2 and T1R3, in their CP was elevated, 
and the morphology of taste buds and numbers of type II-taste cells were not 
changed. In CP of SDS-susceptible C57BL/6J mice without a decrease of sweet 
taste preference, in contrast, there was no alteration of sweet taste receptor 
expression. Together with the finding that the body weight gain of 
SDS-susceptible BALB/c mice was apparently less than that of control ones, 
differing from the case of SDS-susceptible C57BL/6J ones, it is suggested that 
expression of sweet taste receptors in CP of SDS-susceptible BALB/c mice with 
decreased sweet taste preference might be upregulated to compensate for the 
stress-induced increase of energy expenditure.

Copyright © 2022 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jnutbio.2022.109055
PMID: 35643284 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


137. Physiol Behav. 2022 Aug 1;252:113846. doi: 10.1016/j.physbeh.2022.113846.
Epub  2022 May 17.

Behavioral effects and inflammatory markers in the brain and periphery after 
repeated social defeat stress burdened by Opisthorchis felineus infection in 
mice.

Avgustinovich DF(1), Tenditnik MV(2), Bondar NP(3), Marenina MK(4), Zhanaeva 
SY(5), Lvova MN(6), Katokhin AV(6), Pavlov KS(2), Evseenko VI(7), Tolstikova 
TG(4).

Author information:
(1)Laboratory of Molecular Mechanisms of Pathological Processes, Institute of 
Cytology and Genetics, Siberian Branch of Russian Academy of Sciences (SB RAS), 
Prospekt Lavrentyeva, 10, Novosibirsk 630090, Russia; Group of Mechanochemistry 
of Organic Substances, Institute of Solid State Chemistry and Mechanochemistry, 
SB RAS, Novosibirsk, Russia. Electronic address: avgust@bionet.nsc.ru.
(2)Laboratory of Experimental Models of Neurodegenerative Processes, 
Scientific-Research Institute of Neurosciences and Medicine, SB RAS, 
Novosibirsk, Russia.
(3)Laboratory of Molecular Mechanisms of Pathological Processes, Institute of 
Cytology and Genetics, Siberian Branch of Russian Academy of Sciences (SB RAS), 
Prospekt Lavrentyeva, 10, Novosibirsk 630090, Russia; Novosibirsk State 
University, Novosibirsk, Russia.
(4)Department of Medicinal Chemistry, Laboratory of Pharmacological Research, 
N.N. Vorozhtsov Novosibirsk Institute of Organic Chemistry, SB RAS, Novosibirsk, 
Russia.
(5)Department of Psychoneuroimmunology, Scientific-Research Institute of 
Neurosciences and Medicine, SB RAS, Novosibirsk, Russia.
(6)Laboratory of Molecular Mechanisms of Pathological Processes, Institute of 
Cytology and Genetics, Siberian Branch of Russian Academy of Sciences (SB RAS), 
Prospekt Lavrentyeva, 10, Novosibirsk 630090, Russia.
(7)Group of Mechanochemistry of Organic Substances, Institute of Solid State 
Chemistry and Mechanochemistry, SB RAS, Novosibirsk, Russia.

The combination of 4-week repeated social defeat stress (RSDS) and Opisthorchis 
felineus infection was modeled in C57BL/6 mice. Various parameters were compared 
between three experimental groups of male mice (SS: mice subjected to RSDS, OF: 
mice infected with O. felineus, and OF + SS: mice subjected to both adverse 
factors) and behavior-tested and intact (INT) controls. The combination caused 
liver hypertrophy and increased the blood level of proinflammatory cytokine 
interleukin 6 and proteolytic activity of cathepsin B in the hippocampus. 
Meanwhile, hypertrophy of the spleen and of adrenal glands was noticeable. 
Anxious behavior in the elevated plus-maze test was predominantly due to the 
infection, with synergistic effects of an interaction of the two adverse factors 
on multiple parameters in OF + SS mice. Depression-like behavior in the forced 
swimming test was caused only by RSDS and was equally pronounced in SS mice and 
OF + SS mice. Helminths attenuated the activities of cathepsin B in the liver 
and hypothalamus (which were high in SS mice) and increased cathepsin L activity 
in the liver. The highest blood level of corticosterone was seen in SS mice but 
was decreased to control levels by the trematode infection. OF mice had the 
lowest level of corticosterone, comparable to that in INT mice. Thus, the first 
data were obtained on the ability of O. felineus helminths-even at the immature 
stage-to modulate the effects of RSDS, thereby affecting functional connections 
of the host, namely "helminths → liver↔brain axis."

Copyright © 2022. Published by Elsevier Inc.

DOI: 10.1016/j.physbeh.2022.113846
PMID: 35594930 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


138. Neuropharmacology. 2022 Jul 1;212:109077. doi:
10.1016/j.neuropharm.2022.109077.  Epub 2022 May 2.

The NOP antagonist BTRX-246040 increases stress resilience in mice without 
affecting adult neurogenesis in the hippocampus.

D'Oliveira da Silva F(1), Azevedo Neto J(2), Sturaro C(2), Guarino A(2), Robert 
C(1), Gavioli EC(3), Calo G(4), Mouledous L(1), Ruzza C(5).

Author information:
(1)Research Center on Animal Cognition (CRCA), Center of Integrative Biology 
(CBI), University of Toulouse, CNRS UMR-5169, UPS, Toulouse, France.
(2)Department of Neuroscience and Rehabilitation, University of Ferrara, 
Ferrara, Italy.
(3)Department of Biophysics and Pharmacology, Federal University of Rio Grande 
Do Norte, Natal, Brazil.
(4)Department of Pharmaceutical and Pharmacological Sciences, University of 
Padua, Italy.
(5)Department of Neuroscience and Rehabilitation, University of Ferrara, 
Ferrara, Italy; LTTA Laboratory for Advanced Therapies, Technopole of Ferrara, 
Ferrara, Italy. Electronic address: chiara.ruzza@unife.it.

Nociceptin/orphanin FQ (N/OFQ) is the endogenous ligand of an inhibitory G 
protein coupled receptor named N/OFQ peptide receptor (NOP). Clinical and 
preclinical findings suggest that the blockade of the NOP signaling induces 
antidepressant-like effects. Additionally, the blockade of the NOP receptor 
during inescapable stress exposure prevented the acquisition of the helplessness 
phenotype, suggesting that NOP antagonists are able to increase stress 
resilience. BTRX-246040 (aka LY2940094) is a NOP receptor antagonist with high 
affinity, potency and selectivity for the NOP over classical opioid receptors. 
BTRX-246040 is under development for the treatment of depression, eating 
disorders and alcohol abuse and it already entered clinical trials. In the 
present study, the antidepressant effects of BTRX-246040 were evaluated in mice 
subjected to the forced swimming test and to the learned helplessness model of 
depression. Additionally, the ability of BTRX-246040 to prevent the development 
of the helpless behavior and to modulate adult hippocampal neurogenesis has been 
investigated. BTRX-246040 (30 mg/kg, i.p.) produced antidepressant-like effects 
in the forced swimming test and in the learned helplessness model. More 
interestingly, when given before the stress induction sessions it was able to 
prevent the development of the helplessness behavior. Under these experimental 
conditions, BTRX-246040 did not modulate adult hippocampal neurogenesis, neither 
in naive nor in stressed mice. This study, performed with a clinically viable 
ligand, further corroborates growing evidence indicating that the blockade of 
the NOP signaling may provide an innovative strategy for the treatment of stress 
related psychopathologies.

Copyright © 2022 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.neuropharm.2022.109077
PMID: 35513173 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


139. Neurochem Int. 2022 Jul;157:105343. doi: 10.1016/j.neuint.2022.105343. Epub
2022  Apr 28.

Crocin ameliorates depressive-like behaviors induced by chronic restraint stress 
via the NAMPT-NAD(+)-SIRT1 pathway in mice.

Zhang F(1), Zhu X(1), Yu P(1), Sheng T(1), Wang Y(1), Ye Y(2).

Author information:
(1)School of Basic Medical Sciences and Forensic Medicine, Hangzhou Medical 
College, Hangzhou, Zhejiang, China.
(2)School of Basic Medical Sciences and Forensic Medicine, Hangzhou Medical 
College, Hangzhou, Zhejiang, China. Electronic address: yeyilu@hmc.edu.cn.

AIM: To investigate the effects of crocin on depression induced by chronic 
restraint stress (CRS) in mice.
METHODS: Depression model was established induced by CRS. All mice were divided 
into 4 groups randomly: normal group, model group, sertraline group and crocin 
group. From the 28th day after treatment, serials behaviors were conducted to 
evaluate the effects of crocin, including sucrose preference test (SPT), tail 
suspension test (TST), forced swimming test (FST), open field test (OFT), novel 
objective recognition test (NORT), social interaction test (SIT), and dominance 
tube test (DTT). Contents of Nicotinamide phosphoribosyltransferase (NAMPT), 
BDNF, CREB, pCREB and SIRT1 in prefrontal cortex (PFC) were detected by WB. The 
levels of CORT, DA, 5-HT, NE and NAD+ in PFC were also detected by ELISA.
RESULTS: The results showed that crocin ameliorated the depressive-like 
behaviors, which manifested by increased sucrose consumption ratio and decreased 
immobility time in FST and TST. Crocin also increased the exploration time and 
exploration number in T2 phase in NORT, social preference index and social 
novelty index in SIT, reduced the defensive behavior in DTT. The results of WB 
showed crocin reversed the decreased contents of NAMPT, SIRT1, BDNF and 
pCREB/CREB in PFC induced by CRS. Additionally, crocin decreased the expression 
of cortisol (CORT) and increased the contents of DA, 5-HT, NAD+, but had no 
effects on NE between groups in PFC.
CONCLUSION: In view of the findings, crocin ameliorates depression in mice, 
which may be associated with regulating NAMPT-NAD+-SIRT1 pathway.

Copyright © 2022 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Ltd.. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.neuint.2022.105343
PMID: 35490894 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


140. J Affect Disord. 2022 Jul 15;309:201-210. doi: 10.1016/j.jad.2022.04.106.
Epub  2022 Apr 21.

3,3'-Diindolylmethane and 1,4-dihydroxy-2-naphthoic acid prevent chronic mild 
stress induced depressive-like behaviors in female mice.

Madison CA(1), Kuempel J(1), Albrecht GL(1), Hillbrick L(1), Jayaraman A(2), 
Safe S(3), Chapkin RS(4), Eitan S(5).

Author information:
(1)Behavioral and Cellular Neuroscience, Department of Psychological and Brain 
Sciences, Texas A&M University, College Station, 4235 TAMU, TX 77843, USA.
(2)Department of Chemical Engineering, Texas A&M University, College Station, TX 
77843, USA.
(3)Department of Veterinary Physiology and Pharmacology, Texas A&M University, 
4466 TAMU, College Station, TX 77843-4466, USA.
(4)Department of Nutrition, Texas A&M University, College Station, TX 77843, 
USA.
(5)Behavioral and Cellular Neuroscience, Department of Psychological and Brain 
Sciences, Texas A&M University, College Station, 4235 TAMU, TX 77843, USA. 
Electronic address: seitan@tamu.edu.

BACKGROUND: Current pharmaceutical treatments for depression are sometimes 
ineffective and may have unwanted side effects that interfere with patient 
compliance. This study examined the potential antidepressant-like effects of 
dietary- and microbial-derived aryl hydrocarbon receptor (AhR) ligands, 
3,3'-diindolylmethane (DIM) and 1,4-dihydroxy-2-naphthoic acid (1,4-DHNA).
METHODS: Female C57BL/6 mice were subjected to unpredictable chronic mild stress 
(UCMS) or were unstressed. For three weeks prior to UCMS mice were fed daily 
with vehicle or 20 mg/kg DIM, 1,4-DHNA or AhR-inactive isomer 3,7-DHNA; another 
group was subjected to two weeks UCMS before ligand administration began. Mice 
were examined for anhedonia-like behavior as measured by the sucrose preference 
test. Additionally, anxiety levels of the mice were examined before UCMS and 
ligand administration began and at the end in the open field, light/dark, 
elevated plus maze, novelty-induced hypophagia, and marble burying tests. At the 
end of the experiment they were also examined in the Morris water maze (MWM) 
task.
RESULTS: Both DIM and 1,4-DHNA, but not 3,7-DHNA, successfully prevented and 
reversed UCMS-induced anhedonia-like behavior. Furthermore, both DIM and DHNA 
had little to no effect on anxiety levels and did not induce spatial learning 
deficits.
LIMITATIONS: Additional studies are required to determine to what degree the 
antidepressant-like effects of DIM and 1,4-DHNA can be attributed to their 
activities as AhR ligands.
CONCLUSIONS: Our findings indicate that dietary and microbial-derived AhR 
ligands may have clinical applications as potential antidepressants. Future 
studies are necessary to elucidate the role of AhR in depression-like states and 
the underlying mechanisms of action.

Copyright © 2022 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jad.2022.04.106
PMCID: PMC9153281
PMID: 35461819 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
have no conflicts of interest.


141. Metab Brain Dis. 2022 Jun;37(5):1597-1608. doi: 10.1007/s11011-022-00979-6.
Epub  2022 Apr 18.

Involvement of serotonergic neurotransmission in the antidepressant-like effect 
elicited by cholecalciferol in the chronic unpredictable stress model in mice.

Neis VB(#)(1), Werle I(#)(1), Moretti M(1), Rosa PB(1), Camargo A(1), de O 
Dalsenter Y(1), Platt N(1), Rosado AF(1), Engel WD(2), de Almeida GRL(1), 
Selhorst I(1), Dafre AL(1), Rodrigues ALS(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Biochemistry, Center of Biological Sciences, Universidade 
Federal de Santa Catarina, Florianópolis, Santa Catarina, 88040-900, Brazil.
(2)Educational Society of Santa Catarina - Unisociesc, Jaraguá do Sul, Santa 
Catarina, 89251-970, Brazil.
(3)Department of Biochemistry, Center of Biological Sciences, Universidade 
Federal de Santa Catarina, Florianópolis, Santa Catarina, 88040-900, Brazil. 
alsrodri@gmail.com.
(#)Contributed equally

Cholecalciferol deficiency has been associated with stress-related psychiatric 
disorders, particularly depression. Therefore, the present study investigated 
the antidepressant-like effect of cholecalciferol in female mice and the 
possible role of the serotonergic system in this response. The ability of 
cholecalciferol to elicit an antidepressant-like effect and to modulate 
serotonin levels in the hippocampus and prefrontal cortex of mice subjected to 
chronic unpredictable stress (CUS) was also investigated. The administration of 
cholecalciferol (2.5, 7.5, and 25 µg/kg, p.o.) for 7 days, similar to fluoxetine 
(10 mg/kg, p.o., serotonin reuptake inhibitor), reduced the immobility time in 
the tail suspension test, without altering the locomotor performance in the 
open-field test. Moreover, the administration of p-chlorophenylalanine methyl 
ester (PCPA - 100 mg/kg, i.p., for 4 days, a selective inhibitor of tryptophan 
hydroxylase, involved in the serotonin synthesis) abolished the 
antidepressant-like effect of cholecalciferol and fluoxetine in the tail 
suspension test, demonstrating the involvement of serotonergic system. 
Additionally, CUS protocol (21 days) induced depressive-like behavior in the 
tail suspension test and decreased serotonin levels in the prefrontal cortex and 
hippocampus of mice. Conversely, the administration of cholecalciferol and 
fluoxetine in the last 7 days of CUS protocol completely abolished the 
stress-induced depressive-like phenotype. Cholecalciferol was also effective to 
abrogate CUS-induced reduction on serotonin levels in the prefrontal cortex, but 
not in the hippocampus. Our results indicate that cholecalciferol has an 
antidepressant-like effect in mice by modulating the serotonergic system and 
support the assumption that cholecalciferol may have beneficial effects for the 
management of depression.

© 2022. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Science+Business 
Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.

DOI: 10.1007/s11011-022-00979-6
PMID: 35435610 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


142. Brain Res. 2022 Jul 15;1787:147911. doi: 10.1016/j.brainres.2022.147911.
Epub  2022 Apr 9.

CircDYM ameliorates CUMS mice depressive-like behavior and inhibits hippocampal 
neurons injury via miR-497a-5p/NR3C1 axis.

Li X(1), Sun X(2), Xie J(2), Wan H(3).

Author information:
(1)Psychosis Department 1, Qingdao Mental Health Center, Qingdao University, 
Qingdao 266034, PR China.
(2)Open Mental Department, Qingdao Mental Health Center, Qingdao University, 
Qingdao 266034, PR China.
(3)Outpatient Department for Children and Adolescents, Qingdao Mental Health 
Center, Qingdao University, No.299 Nanjing Road, Qingdao, Shandong 266034, PR 
China. Electronic address: wh94083@126.com.

BACKGROUND: Depression is an important mental disease that threatens human 
physical and mental health. Circular RNA (circRNA) has been confirmed to be 
involved in the regulation of depression progression, but the role and mechanism 
of circDYM in depression progression need to be further explored.
METHODS: Chronic unpredictable mild stress (CUMS) mice model was constructed to 
assess mice depressive-like behavior using novelty-suppressed feeding test, 
sucrose preference test, social interaction test, and forced swimming test. The 
expression of circDYM, microRNA (miR)-497a-5p and glucocorticoid receptor 
(NR3C1) was measured by quantitative real-time PCR. The protein levels of NR3C1 
and apoptosis markers were analyzed by western blot analysis. Hippocampal 
neurons viability, apoptosis and inflammation were detected by cell counting kit 
8 assay, flow cytometry and ELISA assay. Furthermore, RNA interaction was 
confirmed by dual-luciferase reporter assay, RIP assay and RNA pull-down assay.
RESULTS: Our study showed that circDYM and NR3C1 were downregulated and 
miR-497a-5p was upregulated in the hippocampus tissues of CUMS mice. 
Overexpressed circDYM alleviated CUMS mice depressive-like behavior and 
repressed hippocampal neurons injury. In terms of mechanism, circDYM could 
upregulate NR3C1 by sponging miR-497a-5p. MiR-497a-5p overexpression reversed 
the regulation of circDYM on CUMS mice depressive-like behavior and hippocampal 
neurons injury. In addition, the function of miR-497a-5p overexpression on CUMS 
mice depressive-like behavior and hippocampal neurons injury also could be 
reversed by overexpressing NR3C1.
CONCLUSION: In summary, our study confirmed that circDYM could relieve the 
depressive-like behavior in CUMS mice and hippocampal neurons injury through 
miR-497a-5p/NR3C1 pathway. These data confirmed that circDYM had an 
anti-depressive function, which might be a potential target for depression 
treatment.

Copyright © 2022. Published by Elsevier B.V.

DOI: 10.1016/j.brainres.2022.147911
PMID: 35413277 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


143. Front Pharmacol. 2022 Feb 14;13:826055. doi: 10.3389/fphar.2022.826055. 
eCollection 2022.

Salmon Calcitonin Exerts an Antidepressant Effect by Activating Amylin 
Receptors.

Jiang J(1), Ju J(1), Luo L(2), Song Z(3), Liao H(4), Yang X(1), Wei S(1), Wang 
D(1), Zhu W(1), Chang J(1), Ma J(1)(5), Hu H(6), Yu J(7), Wang H(8), Hou ST(9), 
Li S(10), Li H(6), Li N(1)(5).

Author information:
(1)Tomas Lindahl Nobel Laureate Laboratory, The Seventh Affiliated Hospital, Sun 
Yat-Sen University, Shenzhen, China.
(2)Department of Critical Care Medicine, The Seventh Affiliated Hospital, Sun 
Yat-sen University, Shenzhen, China.
(3)Oncology Department, The Seventh Affiliated Hospital, Sun Yat-sen University, 
Shenzhen, China.
(4)The Clinical Neuroscience Center, The Seventh Affiliated Hospital, Sun 
Yat-sen University, Shenzhen, China.
(5)China-UK Institute for Frontier Science, Shenzhen, China.
(6)Wolfson Institute for Biomedical Research, Division of Medicine, Faculty of 
Medical Sciences, University College London, London, United Kingdom.
(7)The Fourth People's Hospital of Datong City, Datong, China.
(8)The Fifth People's Hospital of Datong City, Datong, China.
(9)Brain Research Centre and Department of Biology, School of Life Sciences, 
Southern University of Science and Technology, Shenzhen, China.
(10)State Key Laboratory of Oncogenomics, School of Chemical Biology and 
Biotechnology, Peking University Shenzhen Graduate School, Shenzhen, China.

Depressive disorder is defined as a psychiatric disease characterized by the 
core symptoms of anhedonia and learned helplessness. Currently, the treatment of 
depression still calls for medications with high effectiveness, rapid action, 
and few side effects, although many drugs, including fluoxetine and ketamine, 
have been approved for clinical usage by the Food and Drug Administration (FDA). 
In this study, we focused on calcitonin as an amylin receptor polypeptide, of 
which the antidepressant effect has not been reported, even if calcitonin 
gene-related peptides have been previously demonstrated to improve 
depressive-like behaviors in rodents. Here, the antidepressant potential of 
salmon calcitonin (sCT) was first evaluated in a chronic restraint stress (CRS) 
mouse model of depression. We observed that the immobility duration in CRS mice 
was significantly increased during the tail suspension test and forced swimming 
test. Furthermore, a single administration of sCT was found to successfully 
rescue depressive-like behaviors in CRS mice. Lastly, AC187 as a potent amylin 
receptor antagonist was applied to investigate the roles of amylin receptors in 
depression. We found that AC187 significantly eliminated the antidepressant 
effects of sCT. Taken together, our data revealed that sCT could ameliorate a 
depressive-like phenotype probably via the amylin signaling pathway. sCT should 
be considered as a potential therapeutic candidate for depressive disorder in 
the future.

Copyright © 2022 Jiang, Ju, Luo, Song, Liao, Yang, Wei, Wang, Zhu, Chang, Ma, 
Hu, Yu, Wang, Hou, Li, Li and Li.

DOI: 10.3389/fphar.2022.826055
PMCID: PMC8883047
PMID: 35237169

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that the research was 
conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial relationships that could 
be construed as a potential conflict of interest.


144. Behav Brain Res. 2022 May 3;425:113815. doi: 10.1016/j.bbr.2022.113815. Epub
 2022 Feb 24.

Lower antidepressant response to fluoxetine is associated with anxiety-like 
behavior, hippocampal oxidative imbalance, and increase on peripheral IL-17 and 
IFN-γ levels.

Dos Santos BM(1), Pereira GC(1), Piton E(2), Fialho MFP(3), Becker G(3), da 
Silva Carlotto M(1), Camargo LFM(2), Ramanzini LG(2), Oliveira SM(3), Trevisan 
G(1), Zanchet EM(1), Pillat MM(4), Bochi GV(5).

Author information:
(1)Center of Health Sciences, Department of Physiology and Pharmacology, Federal 
University of Santa Maria, Santa Maria, RS, Brazil; Center of Health Sciences, 
Graduate Program in Pharmacology, Federal University of Santa Maria, Santa 
Maria, RS, Brazil.
(2)Center of Health Sciences, Department of Physiology and Pharmacology, Federal 
University of Santa Maria, Santa Maria, RS, Brazil.
(3)Center of Natural and Exact Sciences, Graduate Program in Biological 
Sciences: Biochemistry Toxicology, Federal University of Santa Maria, Santa 
Maria, RS, Brazil.
(4)Center of Health Sciences, Graduate Program in Pharmacology, Federal 
University of Santa Maria, Santa Maria, RS, Brazil.
(5)Center of Health Sciences, Department of Physiology and Pharmacology, Federal 
University of Santa Maria, Santa Maria, RS, Brazil; Center of Health Sciences, 
Graduate Program in Pharmacology, Federal University of Santa Maria, Santa 
Maria, RS, Brazil. Electronic address: guilherme.bochi@ufsm.br.

Major depression is a leading contributor to the global burden of disease. This 
is mainly related to the disorder chronic and recurrent nature, and to high 
rates of refractoriness to treatment. Limited efficacy with currently available 
antidepressants highlights the need for more effective options for treating 
drug-resistant patients and emphasizes the importance of developing specific 
preclinical models for treatment-resistant populations. Treatment-resistant 
depression (TRD) is commonly defined as failure to respond to two or more trials 
of antidepressants. In this study, we investigated the effect of fluoxetine 
treatment for fourteen days on the depressive-like behavior and the oxidative 
and inflammatory parameters of mice submitted to chronic corticosterone 
administration. After 21 days of subcutaneous corticosterone administration 
(20 mg/kg/day) and 14 days of oral fluoxetine treatment (10 mg/kg/day, started 
on day 7 of induction protocol), we separated animals into two groups according 
to the tail suspension test (TST) results: antidepressant responders (good 
response to antidepressant, GRA) and non-responders (resistance to 
antidepressant, AR). Forced swimming test (FST), elevated plus maze test (EPMT), 
and open field test (OFT) were performed. We found that animals classified as AR 
(i.e., those with higher immobility values in the TST) demonstrated anxiety-like 
behavior in the EPMT, increased H2O2 levels, and decreased catalase activity in 
the hippocampus, as well as increased serum levels of IL-17 and IFN-γ. Our 
findings suggest that a redox imbalance in the hippocampus, combined with 
increased levels of peripheral IL-17 and INF-γ, may be involved with an impaired 
response to fluoxetine.

Copyright © 2022 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.bbr.2022.113815
PMID: 35218793 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


145. Drug Metab Pers Ther. 2022 Feb 24;37(3):277-287. doi:
10.1515/dmpt-2021-0125.  eCollection 2022 Sep 1.

Kolaviron ameliorates chronic unpredictable mild stress-induced anxiety and 
depression: involvement of the HPA axis, antioxidant defense system, 
cholinergic, and BDNF signaling.

Ishola IO(1)(2), Olubodun-Obadun TG(1), Bakre OA(1), Ojo ES(1)(3), Adeyemi 
OO(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmacology, Therapeutics and Toxicology, Faculty of Basic 
Medical Sciences, College of Medicine, University of Lagos, Lagos, Nigeria.
(2)African Centre of Excellence for Drug Research, Herbal Medicine Development 
and Regulatory Science, Lagos, Nigeria.
(3)Department of Pharmacology, Southern Illinois University School of Medicine, 
Springfield, IL, USA.

OBJECTIVES: This study sought to investigate the beneficial effect of kolaviron 
(KV) (a biflavonoid) isolated from Garcinia kola seed on chronic unpredictable 
mild stress (CUMS)-induced anxiety- and depressive-like behavior.
METHODS: Male albino mice were randomly divided into six groups (n=8) as 
follows; Group I: vehicle-control unstressed; Group II: CUMS-control; Group 
III-V: CUMS + KV 1, 5 or 50 mg/kg, respectively, Group VI: KV (50 mg/kg, p.o.) 
unstressed mice. Animals were subjected to CUMS for 14 days, followed by 
estimation of depressive- and anxiety-like behavior from days 14-16. This was 
followed by biochemical assays for oxidative stress, hypothalamo-pituitary axis, 
cholinergic, and BDNF signaling.
RESULTS: CUMS caused significant reduction in time spent in open arms of 
elevated plus maze test (EPM) and increase in immobility time in tail suspension 
test (TST) and forced swim test (FST) ameliorated by KV treatments. KV 
administration also attenuated CUMS-induced malondialdehyde/nitrite generation 
and decrease in antioxidant enzymes activities in the prefrontal cortex and 
hippocampus. CUMS increased serum corticosterone, acetylcholinesterase activity, 
and reduced BDNF level in the PFC and hippocampus were attenuated by KV 
administration.
CONCLUSIONS: KV prevented CUMS induced anxiety- and depression-like behavior in 
mice through enhancement of antioxidant defense mechanisms, neurotrophic 
factors, and cholinergic systems.

© 2022 Walter de Gruyter GmbH, Berlin/Boston.

DOI: 10.1515/dmpt-2021-0125
PMID: 35218172 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


146. Food Funct. 2022 Mar 7;13(5):2647-2661. doi: 10.1039/d1fo03750a.

Apple phenolic extracts ameliorate lead-induced cognitive impairment and 
depression- and anxiety-like behavior in mice by abating oxidative stress, 
inflammation and apoptosis via the miR-22-3p/SIRT1 axis.

Ren Y(1), Sun-Waterhouse D(2), Ouyang F(1), Tan X(1), Li D(1), Xu L(1), Li B(3), 
Wang Y(1), Li F(1).

Author information:
(1)College of Food Science and Engineering, Shandong Agricultural University, 
Taian 271018, China. wylily@sdau.edu.cn.
(2)School of Chemical Sciences, The University of Auckland, Auckland, New 
Zealand.
(3)Jinan Vocational College of Nursing, 3636 Gangxi Road, Jinan 250102, China.

Lead can lead to neurotoxicity and cognitive impairment. In this study, for the 
first time, the protective effects and working mechanisms of apple phenolic 
extracts (APEs) against lead acetate (Pb(Ac)2)-induced cognitive impairment and 
depression- and anxiety-like behavior were examined in vivo. Forty male mice 
were administered daily (via gastric gavage; 8 weeks) with 0.9% normal saline 
(control), Pb(Ac)2 (20 ppm), APE (200 ppm) or Pb(Ac)2 (20 ppm) + APE (200 ppm). 
The APE contained five major phenolic compounds: chlorogenic acid, 
proanthocyanidin B2, epicatechin, phloridzin and phloretin. Behavioral tests, 
histopathological examinations and biochemical analyses revealed that 
Pb(Ac)2-treated mice exhibited cognitive and behavioral deficits (i.e. a reduced 
percentage of spontaneous alternation, prolonged duration of immobility and 
decreased open field test scores compared with the control. Pb(Ac)2 exposure 
significantly increased cellular oxidative damage and the levels of 
pro-inflammatory cytokines (interleukin (IL)-1β, IL-6 and tumor necrosis 
factor-α (TNF-α), ionized calcium binding adaptor molecule 1 (Iba1) and 
pro-apoptotic proteins (caspase 3, caspase 9 and Bax), while downregulating the 
expression of Bcl-2 in the brain. APE administration alleviated these 
Pb(Ac)2-induced changes through regulating oxidative stress, neuroinflammation 
and apoptosis via the miR-22-3p/Sirtuin 1 (SIRT1) signaling pathway. Taken 
together, the APE has the potential to treat lead-induced neurotoxicity and 
neurodegenerative disorders via antioxidant, anti-inflammatory and 
anti-apoptotic actions.

DOI: 10.1039/d1fo03750a
PMID: 35167638 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


147. Int J Mol Sci. 2022 Feb 8;23(3):1904. doi: 10.3390/ijms23031904.

High, in Contrast to Low Levels of Acute Stress Induce Depressive-like Behavior 
by Involving Astrocytic, in Addition to Microglial P2X7 Receptors in the Rodent 
Hippocampus.

Zhao YF(1), Ren WJ(1), Zhang Y(1), He JR(1), Yin HY(1), Liao Y(2)(3), Rubini 
P(4), Deussing JM(5), Verkhratsky A(4)(6), Yuan ZQ(2)(3), Illes P(1)(4)(7), Tang 
Y(1)(4)(8).

Author information:
(1)School of Acupuncture and Tuina, Chengdu University of Traditional Chinese 
Medicine, Chengdu 610075, China.
(2)The Brain Science Center, Beijing Institute of Basic Medical Sciences, 
Beijing 100850, China.
(3)School of Medicine, University of South China, Hengyang 421000, China.
(4)International Collaborative Centre on Big Science Plan for Purinergic 
Signalling, Chengdu University of Traditional Chinese Medicine, Chengdu 610075, 
China.
(5)Molecular Neurogenetics, Max Planck Institute of Psychiatry, 80804 Munich, 
Germany.
(6)Faculty of Life Sciences, The University of Manchester, Manchester M13 9PL, 
UK.
(7)Rudolf Boehm Institute for Pharmacology and Toxicology, University of 
Leipzig, 04109 Leipzig, Germany.
(8)Key Laboratory of Sichuan Province for Acupuncture and Chronobiology, Chengdu 
University of Traditional Chinese Medicine, Chengdu 610075, China.

Extracellular adenosine 5'-triphosphate (ATP) in the brain is suggested to be an 
etiological factor of major depressive disorder (MDD). It has been assumed that 
stress-released ATP stimulates P2X7 receptors (Rs) at the microglia, thereby 
causing neuroinflammation; however, other central nervous system (CNS) cell 
types such as astrocytes also possess P2X7Rs. In order to elucidate the possible 
involvement of the MDD-relevant hippocampal astrocytes in the development of a 
depressive-like state, we used various behavioral tests (tail suspension test 
[TST], forced swim test [FST], restraint stress, inescapable foot shock, 
unpredictable chronic mild stress [UCMS]), as well as fluorescence 
immunohistochemistry, and patch-clamp electrophysiology in wild-type (WT) and 
genetically manipulated rodents. The TST and FST resulted in learned 
helplessness manifested as a prolongation of the immobility time, while 
inescapable foot shock caused lower sucrose consumption as a sign of anhedonia. 
We confirmed the participation of P2X7Rs in the development of the 
depressive-like behaviors in all forms of acute (TST, FST, foot shock) and 
chronic stress (UCMS) in the rodent models used. Further, pharmacological 
agonists and antagonists acted in a different manner in rats and mice due to 
their diverse potencies at the respective receptor orthologs. In hippocampal 
slices of mice and rats, only foot shock increased the current responses to 
locally applied dibenzoyl-ATP (Bz-ATP) in CA1 astrocytes; in contrast, TST and 
restraint depressed these responses. Following stressful stimuli, 
immunohistochemistry demonstrated an increased co-localization of P2X7Rs with a 
microglial marker, but no change in co-localization with an astroglial marker. 
Pharmacological damage to the microglia and astroglia has proven the 
significance of the microglia for mediating all types of depression-like 
behavioral reactions, while the astroglia participated only in reactions induced 
by strong stressors, such as foot shock. Because, in addition to acute 
stressors, their chronic counterparts induce a depressive-like state in rodents 
via P2X7R activation, we suggest that our data may have relevance for the 
etiology of MDD in humans.

DOI: 10.3390/ijms23031904
PMCID: PMC8836505
PMID: 35163829 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


148. Neuropharmacology. 2022 May 1;208:108978. doi:
10.1016/j.neuropharm.2022.108978.  Epub 2022 Feb 11.

PEA-OXA ameliorates allodynia, neuropsychiatric and adipose tissue remodeling 
induced by social isolation.

Belardo C(1), Alessio N(1), Pagano M(1), De Dominicis E(1), Infantino R(1), 
Perrone M(1), Iannotta M(1), Galderisi U(1), Rinaldi B(1), Scuteri D(2), Bagetta 
G(2), Palazzo E(3), Maione S(1), Luongo L(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Experimental Medicine, University of Campania "Luigi 
Vanvitelli", Naples, Italy.
(2)Pharmacotechnology Documentation and Transfer Unit, Preclinical and 
Translational Pharmacology, Department of Pharmacy, Health and Nutritional 
Sciences, University of Calabria, Rende, Italy.
(3)Department of Experimental Medicine, University of Campania "Luigi 
Vanvitelli", Naples, Italy. Electronic address: enza.palazzo@unicampania.it.

Chronic social isolation generates a persistent state of stress associated with 
obesity along with some neuro-endocrine disorders and central behavioral 
sequelae (eg anxiety, depression, aggression, and allodynia). In this study, we 
evaluated the effect of social isolation on body weight, depressive- and 
anxious-aggressive-like behavior, as well as on phenotypic changes of adipocytes 
from visceral adipose tissue of control (group-housed) or socially isolated 
(single-housed) male mice. The effect of treatment with pentadecyl-2-oxazoline 
(PEA-OXA), a natural alpha2 antagonist and histamine H3 protean partial agonist, 
on these alterations was also evaluated. Single or group-housed mice treated 
with vehicle or PEA-OXA underwent body weight, mechanical allodynia, anxious-, 
depressive- and aggressive-like behavior measurements. Proliferation rate, 
apoptosis, senescence, expression of fat lineage genes, lipid droplets and 
proinflammatory cytokines were measured on white adipose tissue adipocytes from 
group- or single-housed mice. Single housed mice developed weight gain, 
mechanical allodynia at the von Frey test, aggressiveness in the resident 
intruder test, depression- and anxiety-like behavior in the tail suspension and 
hole drop tests, respectively. Single housed mice receiving PEA-OXA showed a 
general resolution of both, physical-metabolic and behavioral alterations 
associated with social isolation. Furthermore, adipocytes from the adipose 
tissue of socially isolated mice showed an evident inflamed phenotype (i.e. a 
reduced rate of proliferation, apoptosis, senescence, and ROS hyper-production 
together with an increased expression of IL-1β, IL-10, IL-17, and TNF-α and a 
decrease of IL-6). The treatment with PEA-OXA on adipocytes from single housed 
mice produced a protective/anti-inflammatory phenotype with an increased 
expression of brown adipose tissue biomarker. This study confirms that 
persistent stress caused by social isolation predisposes to obesity and 
neuropsychiatric disorders. PEA-OXA, through its multi-target activity on alpha2 
adrenoceptor and histamine H3 receptors, which have recently aroused great 
interest in the neuropsychiatric field, reduces weight gain, systemic 
pro-inflammatory state, allodynia, and affective disorders associated with 
social isolation.

Copyright © 2022 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.neuropharm.2022.108978
PMID: 35157898 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


149. Elife. 2022 Feb 14;11:e72981. doi: 10.7554/eLife.72981.

VTA-projecting cerebellar neurons mediate stress-dependent depression-like 
behaviors.

Baek SJ(1)(2), Park JS(1)(2), Kim J(1)(2), Yamamoto Y(1), Tanaka-Yamamoto 
K(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Center for Functional Connectomics, Brain Science Institute, Korea Institute 
of Science and Technology (KIST), Seoul, Republic of Korea.
(2)Division of Bio-Medical Science and Technology, KIST School, Korea University 
of Science and Technology (UST), Seoul, Republic of Korea.

Although cerebellar alterations have been implicated in stress symptoms, the 
exact contribution of the cerebellum to stress symptoms remains to be 
elucidated. Here, we demonstrated the crucial role of cerebellar neurons 
projecting to the ventral tegmental area (VTA) in the development of chronic 
stress-induced behavioral alterations in mice. Chronic chemogenetic activation 
of inhibitory Purkinje cells in crus I suppressed c-Fos expression in the DN and 
an increase in immobility in the tail suspension test or forced swimming test, 
which were triggered by chronic stress application. The combination of 
adeno-associated virus-based circuit mapping and electrophysiological recording 
identified network connections from crus I to the VTA via the dentate nucleus 
(DN) of the deep cerebellar nuclei. Furthermore, chronic inhibition of specific 
neurons in the DN that project to the VTA prevented stressed mice from showing 
such depression-like behavior, whereas chronic activation of these neurons alone 
triggered behavioral changes that were comparable with the depression-like 
behaviors triggered by chronic stress application. Our results indicate that the 
VTA-projecting cerebellar neurons proactively regulate the development of 
depression-like behavior, raising the possibility that cerebellum may be an 
effective target for the prevention of depressive disorders in human.

© 2022, Baek et al.

DOI: 10.7554/eLife.72981
PMCID: PMC8843095
PMID: 35156922 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: SB, JP, JK, YY, KT No competing interests 
declared


150. Front Pharmacol. 2022 Jan 21;12:805758. doi: 10.3389/fphar.2021.805758. 
eCollection 2021.

Spontaneous Activity of CB(2) Receptors Attenuates Stress-Induced Behavioral and 
Neuroplastic Deficits in Male Mice.

Ribeiro MA(1), Aguiar RP(2), Scarante FF(2), Fusse EJ(3), de Oliveira RMW(2), 
Guimaraes FS(1), Campos AC(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmacology and Therapeutics, State University of Maringá, 
Maringá, Brazil.
(2)Department of Pharmacology- Ribeirão Preto Medical School, University of São 
Paulo, São Paulo, Brazil.
(3)Mental Health Graduate Program- Ribeirão Preto Medical School, University of 
São Paulo, São Paulo, Brazil.
(4)Pharmacology, University of São Paulo, São Paulo, Brazil.

The monoaminergic theory of depression/anxiety disorders cannot fully explain 
the behavioral and neuroplastic changes observed after ADs chronic treatment. 
Endocannabinoid system, which comprises CB2 receptors, has been associated with 
the chronic effects of these drugs, especially in stressed mice. CB2-KO mice 
display more vulnerability to stressful stimuli. In the present study, we 
hypothesized that the behavioral and neuroplastic effects observed after 
repeated treatment with the AD escitalopram (Esc) in chronically stressed mice 
depend on CB2 receptor signaling. Male mice submitted to chronic unpredictable 
stress (CUS) paradigm (21 days) were treated daily with AM630 (0.01; 0.03 or 
0.3 mg/kg, i.p) a CB2 receptor antagonist/inverse agonist. At e 19th day of the 
CUS protocol, mice were submitted to Open field test and Tail-suspension test to 
evaluate antidepressant-like behavior. At the end of the stress protocol, mice 
were submitted to Novel Suppressed Feeding test (day 22nd) to evaluate 
anxiety-like behavior. In a second series of experiments, male mice treated with 
Esc (10 mg/kg, daily, 21 days) in the presence or not of AM630 (0.30 mg/kg) were 
submitted to the same round of behavioral tests in the same conditions as 
performed in the dose-response curve protocol. Animals were then euthanized 
under deep anesthesia, and their brains/hippocampi removed for 
immunohistochemistry (Doublecortin-DCX) or Western Blot assay. Our results 
demonstrated that chronic treatment with AM630, a CB2 antagonist/inverse 
agonist, induces anxiolytic-like effects in stressed mice. Moreover, chronic 
reduction of CB2 receptor endogenous activity by AM630 attenuated the 
neuroplastic (potentiating stress-induced decreased expression of pro-BDNF, but 
enhanced pmTOR and DAGL expression in the hippocampus reduced in stressed mice), 
the antidepressant- but not the anxiolytic-like effects of Esc. AM630 alone or 
in combination with Esc decreased the expression of DCX + cell in both the 
subgranular and granular layers of the dentate gyrus (DG), indicating a general 
reduction of DCX + neuroblasts and a decrease in their migration through the DG 
layers. We suggest that the antidepressant-like behavior and the pro-neurogenic 
effect, but not the anxiolytic like behavior, promoted by Esc in stressed mice 
are, at least in part, mediated by CB2 receptors.

Copyright © 2022 Ribeiro, Aguiar, Scarante, Fusse, de Oliveira, Guimaraes and 
Campos.

DOI: 10.3389/fphar.2021.805758
PMCID: PMC8814367
PMID: 35126139

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that the research was 
conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial relationships that could 
be construed as a potential conflict of interest.


151. Eur J Pharmacol. 2022 Mar 15;919:174798. doi: 10.1016/j.ejphar.2022.174798.
Epub  2022 Feb 4.

Antidepressant-like effect of sodium orthovanadate in a mouse model of chronic 
unpredictable mild stress.

Joshi A(1), Akhtar A(1), Saroj P(1), Kuhad A(1), Sah SP(2).

Author information:
(1)University Institute of Pharmaceutical Sciences, Panjab University, 
Chandigarh, UT, 160014, India.
(2)University Institute of Pharmaceutical Sciences, Panjab University, 
Chandigarh, UT, 160014, India. Electronic address: spilkhwal@rediffmail.com.

Depression is a psychiatric disorder characterized by low-esteem, anhedonia, 
social deficit, and lack of interest. Decreased brain-derived neurotrophic 
factor (BDNF) and impaired tropomyosin kinase B receptor (TrkB receptor) 
signaling are associated with depression. In our study, depressive-like behavior 
was induced in mice by chronic unpredictable mild stress (CUMS) model. Various 
behavioral tests like tail suspension test (TST), open field test (OFT), sucrose 
preference test (SPT); biochemical analyses for corticosterone, reduced 
glutathione (GSH), lipid peroxidation (LPO), superoxide dismutase (SOD), nitric 
oxide (NO) and enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) for BDNF were 
performed. Body weight was measured every week. CUMS induced depressive-like 
behavior was found to be associated with increased oxidative stress in the brain 
and serum corticisterone with subsequent reduction of BDNF. Sodium orthovanadate 
(SOV), a protein tyrosine phosphatase inhibitor already reported to elevate BDNF 
levels, was used as the test drug. Sodium orthovanadate (5 mg/kg, 10 mg/kg) and 
fluoxetine (FLX-10 mg/kg) was given to mice orally for 21days before 30 min of 
stress induction. The behavioral tests reflected depressive-like behavior in 
CUMS, which was attenuated by both SOV and fluoxetine. SOV at 10 mg/kg 
demonstrated significant results in the present study characterized by decreased 
malondialdehyde levels (MDA/LPO), NO levels, and increased GSH level and SOD 
activity in both the cortex and hippocampus. Besides, ELISA has revealed the 
significant elevation of BDNF levels in the treatment groups (SOV-5 mg/kg, 
10 mg/kg and FLX-10 mg/kg) as compared to the disease group (CUMS). Therefore, 
the treatment with SOV appeared to reverse both oxidative and nitrosative 
stress. Decreased serum corticosterone levels observed with SOV (5 & 10 mg/kg), 
FLX-10 mg/kg, FLX (10 mg/kg) + SOV (5 mg/kg); and SOV-10 mg/kg per-se treatment 
and elevated BDNF level with SOV (5 & 10 mg/kg), FLX-10 mg/kg were associated 
with attenuation of depressive-like behavior. The findings of this preliminary 
study indicate that SOV has the potential to restore antidepressant-like effects 
or prevent stress-induced anhedonia and so further molecular mechanisms are 
warranted for clinical translation.

Copyright © 2022 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ejphar.2022.174798
PMID: 35123977 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


152. Biol Psychiatry. 2022 May 1;91(9):810-820. doi:
10.1016/j.biopsych.2021.11.008.  Epub 2021 Nov 12.

Convergence of Clinically Relevant Manipulations on Dopamine-Regulated 
Prefrontal Activity Underlying Stress Coping Responses.

Wilke SA(1), Lavi K(2), Byeon S(2), Donohue KC(2), Sohal VS(3).

Author information:
(1)Semel Institute for Neuroscience and Human Behavior, Department of Psychiatry 
and Biobehavioral Sciences, David Geffen School of Medicine, University of 
California, Los Angeles, Los Angeles, California; Department of Psychiatry and 
Behavior Sciences, University of California, San Francisco, San Francisco, 
California; Weill Institute for Neurosciences, University of California, San 
Francisco, San Francisco, California; Kavli Institute for Fundamental 
Neuroscience, University of California, San Francisco, San Francisco, 
California.
(2)Department of Psychiatry and Behavior Sciences, University of California, San 
Francisco, San Francisco, California; Weill Institute for Neurosciences, 
University of California, San Francisco, San Francisco, California; Kavli 
Institute for Fundamental Neuroscience, University of California, San Francisco, 
San Francisco, California.
(3)Department of Psychiatry and Behavior Sciences, University of California, San 
Francisco, San Francisco, California; Weill Institute for Neurosciences, 
University of California, San Francisco, San Francisco, California; Kavli 
Institute for Fundamental Neuroscience, University of California, San Francisco, 
San Francisco, California. Electronic address: vikaas.sohal@ucsf.edu.

Comment in
    Biol Psychiatry. 2022 May 1;91(9):773-774.

BACKGROUND: Depression is pleiotropic and influenced by diverse genetic, 
environmental, and pharmacological factors. Identifying patterns of circuit 
activity on which many of these factors converge would be important, because 
studying these patterns could reveal underlying pathophysiological processes 
and/or novel therapies. Depression is commonly assumed to involve changes within 
prefrontal circuits, and dopamine D2 receptor (D2R) agonists are increasingly 
used as adjunctive antidepressants. Nevertheless, how D2Rs influence 
disease-relevant patterns of prefrontal circuit activity remains unknown.
METHODS: We used brain slice calcium imaging to measure how patterns of 
prefrontal activity are modulated by D2Rs, antidepressants, and manipulations 
that increase depression susceptibility. To validate the idea that prefrontal 
D2Rs might contribute to antidepressant responses, we used optogenetic and 
genetic manipulations to test how dopamine, D2Rs, and D2R+ neurons contribute to 
stress-coping behavior.
RESULTS: Patterns of positively correlated activity in prefrontal microcircuits 
are specifically enhanced by D2R stimulation as well as by two mechanistically 
distinct antidepressants, ketamine and fluoxetine. Conversely, this D2R-driven 
effect was disrupted in two etiologically distinct depression models, a genetic 
susceptibility model and mice that are susceptible to chronic social defeat. 
Phasic stimulation of dopaminergic afferents to the prefrontal cortex and 
closed-loop stimulation of D2R+ neurons increased effortful responses to tail 
suspension stress, whereas prefrontal D2R deletion reduced the duration of 
individual struggling episodes.
CONCLUSIONS: Correlated prefrontal microcircuit activity represents a point of 
convergence for multiple depression-related manipulations. Prefrontal D2Rs 
enhance this activity. Through this mechanism, prefrontal D2Rs may promote 
network states associated with antidepressant actions and effortful responses to 
stress.

Copyright © 2021 Society of Biological Psychiatry. Published by Elsevier Inc. 
All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.biopsych.2021.11.008
PMID: 35090617 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


153. Evid Based Complement Alternat Med. 2022 Jan 11;2022:7558825. doi: 
10.1155/2022/7558825. eCollection 2022.

Liquiritin Alleviates Depression-Like Behavior in CUMS Mice by Inhibiting 
Oxidative Stress and NLRP3 Inflammasome in Hippocampus.

Liu C(1), Yuan D(1), Zhang C(2), Tao Y(3), Meng Y(1), Jin M(1), Song W(1), Wang 
B(1), Wei L(1).

Author information:
(1)Clinical Medical College of Changchun University of Chinese Medicine, 
Changchun 130117, China.
(2)School of Basic Medicine, Changchun University of Chinese Medicine, Changchun 
130117, China.
(3)Affiliated Hospital of Changchun University of Chinese Medicine, Changchun 
130021, China.

OBJECTIVE: Central inflammation is generally accepted to be involved in the 
pathology of depression. We investigated whether liquiritin exerts 
antidepressant effects by inhibiting central NLRP3 inflammasomes.
RESULTS: The behavioral despair model and chronic unpredictable mild stress 
(CUMS) model in mice were established to evaluate the antidepressant action of 
liquiritin. In the despair model study, liquiritin (40 mg/kg) administration 
reduced immobility time in tail suspension test (TST) and forced swimming test 
(FST) without affecting locomotion activity. In CUMS model study, liquiritin 
(40 mg/kg, once daily for 4 weeks) significantly increased sucrose consumption 
and body weight of CUMS mice. The behavioral experiment results showed that 
liquiritin reduced the immobile time of CUMS mice in TST and FST, respectively, 
and increased the time spent and open arm entries in the elevated plus-maze 
(EPM) test. Further, the hippocampal superoxide dismutase (SOD) activity was 
increased in liquiritin-treated group, while malonaldehyde (MDA) decreased. 
Additionally, the hippocampal cytokines interleukin-18 (IL-18) and interleukin-1 
beta (IL-1β) contents were reduced in the liquiritin-treated group. Further, 
liquiritin downregulated the expression of NLRP3 in the hippocampus of CUMS mice 
rather than TLR4. Besides, NLRP3 inflammasome-associated proteins caspase-1 and 
ASC were also downregulated. However, liquiritin did not alter the thermal 
stability of NLRP3 in the cellular thermal shift assay (CETSA), suggesting that 
its inhibition of NLPR3 was not by direct targeting of NLRP3 protein.
CONCLUSIONS: Liquiritin attenuates depression-like behavior of CUMS mice and 
inhibited cytokines levels triggered by NLRP3 inflammasome, suggesting the 
antidepressant action is, at least partially, associated with antioxidant stress 
and inhibition of NLRP3 inflammasome activation.

Copyright © 2022 Chang Liu et al.

DOI: 10.1155/2022/7558825
PMCID: PMC8767389
PMID: 35069768

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that there are no conflicts 
of interest regarding the publication of this article.


154. Life Sci. 2022 Mar 15;293:120349. doi: 10.1016/j.lfs.2022.120349. Epub 2022
Jan  20.

Propofol improves learning and memory in post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD) 
mice via recovering hippocampus synaptic plasticity.

Niu W(1), Duan Y(2), Kang Y(3), Cao X(4), Xue Q(5).

Author information:
(1)Department of Anesthesiology, Ruijin Hospital, Shanghai Jiao Tong University 
School of Medicine, Shanghai, China.
(2)Key Laboratory of Brain Functional Genomics, Ministry of Education, Shanghai 
Key Laboratory of Brain Functional Genomics, School of Life Sciences, East China 
Normal University, Shanghai, China.
(3)Department of Anesthesiology, Tongren Hospital, Shanghai Jiao Tong University 
School of Medicine, Shanghai, China.
(4)Key Laboratory of Brain Functional Genomics, Ministry of Education, Shanghai 
Key Laboratory of Brain Functional Genomics, School of Life Sciences, East China 
Normal University, Shanghai, China. Electronic address: xhcao@brain.ecnu.edu.cn.
(5)Department of Anesthesiology, Ruijin Hospital, Shanghai Jiao Tong University 
School of Medicine, Shanghai, China. Electronic address: xqs11260@rjh.com.cn.

AIMS: Propofol, the most commonly used intravenous anesthetic, is known for its 
protective effect in various human and animal disease models such as 
post-traumatic stress disease (PTSD). However, it still needs efforts to clarify 
the effect of propofol on fear memory extinction and the relevant mechanisms.
METHODS: Fear memory extinction was examined in PTSD mice model. Thirty-six mice 
were randomly divided into three groups: a shock + propofol group (sh + Pro), 
shock + normal saline group (sh + NS), and sham group. The mice were treated 
with propofol (150 mg/kg) or normal saline (of the same volume) 
intraperitoneally 30 min after the conditioning. These mice's behavior was 
analysed with contextual test, sucrose preference test (SPT) and Morris water 
maze (MWM). Additionally, the synaptic plasticity of the hippocampus was 
examined by long-term potentiation (LTP) and long-term depression (LTD).
KEY FINDINGS: Compared with the sham group, the sh + NS group showed increased 
freezing time and depressive behavior, meanwhile the sh + Pro group showed minor 
behavioral changes. What's more, we found that propofol rescued the impaired 
long-term potentiation (LTP) and long-term depression (LTD) in hippocampus of 
PTSD mice. All these suggest that propofol can accelerate fear memory extinction 
and change synaptic plasticity of PTSD mice.
SIGNIFICANCE: The study proved that propofol can protect the mice from PTSD by 
reserving synaptic plasticity and brought a new insight into PTSD treatment 
indicating that propofol maybe a potential cure for PTSD.

Copyright © 2022 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.lfs.2022.120349
PMID: 35065162 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


155. Biochem Biophys Res Commun. 2022 Feb 19;593:28-34. doi: 
10.1016/j.bbrc.2022.01.025. Epub 2022 Jan 11.

Periaqueductal gray is required for controlling chronic stress-induced 
depression-like behavior.

Peng WH(1), Kan HW(1), Ho YC(2).

Author information:
(1)School of Medicine for International Students, College of Medicine, I-Shou 
University, Kaohsiung City, 82445, Taiwan.
(2)School of Medicine, College of Medicine, I-Shou University, Kaohsiung City, 
82445, Taiwan. Electronic address: r96443003@ntu.edu.tw.

BACKGROUND: Enduring exposure to psychological stress is associated with an 
elevated risk of major depressive disorder (MDD). There is an enormous need to 
investigate the unexplored mechanisms of MDD. We examined whether pain-free 
stress alters synaptic transmission, causing depression-like behaviors in the 
ventrolateral periaqueductal gray (vlPAG), a brain stem nucleus that controls 
stress-related depression-like behavior.
METHODS: In the current study, we studied neuronal changes in the vlPAG and 
behavioral transforms using electrophysiological recordings, behavioral tests, 
and pharmacological approaches.
RESULTS: We found that chronic restraint stress (CRS) diminished glutamatergic 
transmission in the vlPAG, leading to maladaptive behavioral despair and 
anhedonia in mice demonstrated by the forced swimming test (FST), tail 
suspension test (TST) and female urine sniffing test (FUST). Moreover, CRS 
increased behavioral hypersensitivity shown by the von Frey test. Bath perfusion 
with the rapid-acting antidepressant (2R,6R)-hydroxynorketamine (HNK) increased 
both the frequency and amplitude of miniature excitatory postsynaptic currents 
(mEPSCs) in vlPAG neurons in the CRS and control groups. Functionally, 
(2R,6R)-HNK directly enhanced the action potential firing rate in vlPAG neurons. 
Behaviorally, intravlPAG microinjection of (2R,6R)-HNK alleviated chronic 
restraint stress-induced depression-like behaviors and behavioral 
hypersensitivity.
CONCLUSIONS: These results demonstrate that psychological stress-elicited 
depression-like behavior is related to a remarkable decrease in glutamatergic 
transmission in the vlPAG. The maladaptive behaviors are attributed to 
hypoactivity of glutamatergic neurons in the vlPAG, and direct enhancement of 
glutamatergic neuronal activity in the vlPAG rescues depression-like behaviors. 
The present results prove that vlPAG is critical for controlling stress-induced 
depression-like behaviors through alteration of glutamatergic transmission.

Copyright © 2022 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.bbrc.2022.01.025
PMID: 35051779 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper.


156. ACS Omega. 2021 Dec 28;7(1):140-148. doi: 10.1021/acsomega.1c04155.
eCollection  2022 Jan 11.

6-Shogaol Attenuates Traumatic Brain Injury-Induced Anxiety/Depression-like 
Behavior via Inhibition of Oxidative Stress-Influenced Expressions of 
Inflammatory Mediators TNF-α, IL-1β, and BDNF: Insight into the Mechanism.

Afzal M(1), Kazmi I(2), Quazi AM(1), Khan SA(3), Zafar A(4), Al-Abbasi FA(2), 
Imam F(5), Alharbi KS(1), Alzarea SI(1), Yadav N(6).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmacology, College of Pharmacy, Jouf University, Sakaka, 
Aljouf-72341, Saudi Arabia.
(2)Department of Biochemistry, Faculty of Science, King Abdulaziz University, 
Jeddah 21589, Saudi Arabia.
(3)Department of Pharmaceutical Chemistry, College of Pharmacy, National 
University of Science and Technology, Mascat-130, Oman.
(4)Department of Pharmaceutics, College of Pharmacy, Jouf University, Sakaka, 
Aljouf-72341, Saudi Arabia.
(5)Department of Pharmacology and Toxicology, College of Pharmacy, King Saud 
University, Riyadh 11451, Saudi Arabia.
(6)Central Council for Research in Ayurvedic Science, New Delhi 110058, India.

Anxiety and depression are among the major traumatic brain injury-induced 
psychiatric disorders in survivors. The present study was undertaken to 
investigate the beneficial effects of 6-Shogaol against depression-like behavior 
and anxiety, induced by traumatic brain injury (TBI), in mice. The mice were 
administered either fluoxetine, vehicle, or three different doses (10, 20 and 30 
mg/kg/day, i.p.) of 6-Shogaol after 10 days of impact-accelerated TBI. The 
treatment was continued for 14 consecutive days. Elevated plus maze test, marble 
burying test, staircase test, and social interaction test were employed to 
investigate the effect of 6-Shogaol on anxiety-like behavior. The impact of 
treatment on depression-like behavior was assessed using hyper-emotionality 
behavior or open-field exploration test. The expressions of brain-derived 
neurotrophic factor (BDNF), tumor necrosis factor-α (TNF-α), interleukin-1β 
(IL-1β), and malondialdehyde (MDA) levels in brain tissue and brain water were 
measured to elucidate possible mechanisms involved. 6-Shogaol treatment (higher 
dose) was able to attenuate anxiety/depression-like behaviors in mice with TBI. 
6-Shogaol treatment also altered MDA formation and expressions of TNF-α and 
IL-1β that act as major inflammation-inducing cytokines in brain tissue. 
Additionally, brain BDNF levels were also affected by 6-Shogaol treatment. 
Although the lower dose of 6-Shogaol was able to rectify inflammation and BDNF 
expression in brain tissue, it was unable to improve anxiety/depression-like 
behaviors. 6-Shogaol treatment produced beneficial effects for TBI-induced 
anxiety/depression-like behaviors in mice, which could be attributed to the 
reduction of lipid peroxidation, inflammation, and enhanced BDNF expression.

© 2021 The Authors. Published by American Chemical Society.

DOI: 10.1021/acsomega.1c04155
PMCID: PMC8756802
PMID: 35036685

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no competing financial 
interest.


157. Prog Neuropsychopharmacol Biol Psychiatry. 2022 Apr 20;115:110509. doi: 
10.1016/j.pnpbp.2022.110509. Epub 2022 Jan 14.

Prophylactic efficacy of ketamine, but not the low-trapping NMDA receptor 
antagonist AZD6765, against stress-induced maladaptive behavior and 
4E-BP1-related synaptic protein synthesis impairment.

Camargo A(1), Torrá ACNC(1), Dalmagro AP(2), Valverde AP(1), Kouba BR(1), Fraga 
DB(1), Alves EC(1), Rodrigues ALS(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Biochemistry, Center of Biological Sciences, Center of 
Biological Sciences, Federal University of Santa Catarina, Florianopolis, SC, 
Brazil.
(2)Department of Natural Sciences, Center of Natural and Exact Sciences, 
Department of Natural Sciences, Regional University of Blumenau, Blumenau, SC, 
Brazil.
(3)Department of Biochemistry, Center of Biological Sciences, Center of 
Biological Sciences, Federal University of Santa Catarina, Florianopolis, SC, 
Brazil. Electronic address: ana.l.rodrigues@ufsc.br.

Ketamine enhances the resilience against stress-induced depressive-like 
behavior, but its prophylactic efficacy in anxiety-related behaviors remains to 
be elucidated. Moreover, there is a need for developing novel preventive 
strategies against depressive- and anxiety-like behavior. AZD6765, a 
low-trapping NMDA receptor antagonist, shares with ketamine common molecular 
targets and produces rapid-onset antidepressant effects, suggesting that it 
could be a prophylactic agent. Therefore, this study investigated the 
prophylactic effect of ketamine against the depressive- and anxiety-like 
behavior induced by chronic restraint stress (2 h/day, for 10 days) in mice. We 
also investigated if AZD6765 exerts a resilience-enhancing response against 
these maladaptive behaviors. The contribution of 4E-BP1-related synaptic 
proteins synthesis (PSD-95/GluA1) in the possible pro-resilience efficacy of 
ketamine and AZD6765 was investigated. A single administration of ketamine 
(5 mg/kg, i.p.), but not AZD6765 (1 or 5 mg/kg, i.p.), given 1 week before the 
stress protocol, was effective in preventing stress-induced depressive-like 
behavior in the tail suspension test and splash test. Ketamine administered at 1 
and 5 mg/kg (i.p.), but not AZD6765 (1 or 5 mg/kg, i.p.), prevented 
stress-induced anxiety-related self-grooming alterations. Stress-induced 
reduction on 4E-BP1 phosphorylation and PSD-95 and GluA1 immunocontent in the 
prefrontal cortex was prevented by ketamine (5 mg/kg, i.p.), but not AZD6765 (1 
or 5 mg/kg, i.p.). The results indicate that ketamine, but not AZD6765, exerts a 
pro-resilience response against stress-induced maladaptive behavior, reinforcing 
that it could be a prophylactic agent to manage individuals at-risk to develop 
MDD and anxiety.

Copyright © 2022 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.pnpbp.2022.110509
PMID: 35033626 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


158. Chin J Integr Med. 2022 Apr;28(4):339-348. doi: 10.1007/s11655-022-2879-2.
Epub  2022 Jan 13.

A Network Pharmacology-Based Study on Antidepressant Effect of Salicornia 
europaea L. Extract with Experimental Support in Chronic Unpredictable Mild 
Stress Model Mice.

Sun DC(1), Wang RR(1), Xu H(1), Zhu XH(1), Sun Y(1), Qiao SQ(1), Qiao W(2).

Author information:
(1)Tianjin Key Laboratory on Technologies Enabling Development of Clinical 
Therapeutics and Diagnostics, School of Pharmacy, Tianjin Medical University, 
Tianjin, 300070, China.
(2)Tianjin Key Laboratory on Technologies Enabling Development of Clinical 
Therapeutics and Diagnostics, School of Pharmacy, Tianjin Medical University, 
Tianjin, 300070, China. qiaowei@tmu.edu.cn.

OBJECTIVE: To investigate the pharmacodynamic material basis, mechanism of 
actions and targeted diseases of Salicornia europaea L. (SE) based on the 
network pharmacology method, and to verify the antidepressant-like effect of the 
SE extract by pharmacological experiments.
METHODS: Retrieval tools including Chinese medicine (CM), PubMed, PharmMapper, 
MAS 3.0 and Cytoscape were used to search the components of SE, predict its 
targets and related therapeutic diseases, and construct the 
"Component-Target-Pathway" network of SE for central nervous system (CNS) 
diseases. Further, protein-protein interaction (PPI) network, Kyoto Encyclopedia 
of Genes and Genomes (KEGG) and Gene Ontology (GO) function annotation of 
depression-related targets were analyzed to predict the antidepressant mechanism 
of SE. Chronic unpredictable mild stress (CUMS) model was used to construct a 
mouse model with depression-like symptoms. And the animals were randomly divided 
into 6 groups (n=10) including the normal group (nonstressed mice administered 
with distilled water), the CUMS group (CUMS mice administered with distilled 
water), the venlafaxine group (CUMS mice administered with venlafaxine 9.38 
mg/kg), SE high-, medium-, and low-dose groups (CUMS mice administered with SE 
1.8, 1.35 and 0.9 g/kg, respectively). Then some relevant indicators were 
determined for experimental verification by the forced swim test (FST), the tail 
suspension test (TST) and open-field test (OFT). Dopamine (DA) concentration in 
hippocampus and cerebral cortex, IL-2 and corticosterone (CORT) levels in blood, 
and nuclear factor E2 related factor 2 (Nrf2), kelch-like epichlorohydrin 
related protein 1 (Keap1), NAD(P) H dehydrogenase [quinone] 1 (NQO1) and heme 
oxygenase-1 (HO-1) levels in mice were measured by enzyme linked immunosorbent 
assay (ELISA) and Western blot respectively to explore the possible mechanisms.
RESULTS: The "target-disease" network diagram predicted by network pharmacology, 
showed that the potential target of SE involves a variety of CNS diseases, among 
which depression accounts for the majority. The experimental results showed that 
SE (1.8, 1.35 g/kg) significantly decreased the immobility period, compared with 
the CUMS group in FST and TST in mice after 3-week treatment, while SE exhibited 
no significant effect on exploratory behavior in OFT in mice. Compared with CUMS 
group, the SE group (0.9 g/kg) showed significant differences (P<0.05) in DA 
levels in the hippocampus and cerebral cortex. In addition, compared with CUMS 
control group, SE (1.8 g/kg) group showed a significant effect on decreasing the 
activities of CORT (P<0.05), and serum IL-2 level with no statistical 
significance. Finally, Western blot results showed that compared with the model 
group, Nrf2, Keap1, NQO1 and HO-1 protein expressions in SE group (1.8 g/kg) 
were up-regulated (all P<0.01).
CONCLUSION: The SE extract may have an antidepressant effect, which appeared to 
regulate Nrf2-ARE pathway and increased levels of DA and CORT in the hippocampus 
and cortex.

© 2022. The Chinese Journal of Integrated Traditional and Western Medicine Press 
and Springer-Verlag GmbH Germany, part of Springer Nature.

DOI: 10.1007/s11655-022-2879-2
PMID: 35023063 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


159. Psychopharmacology (Berl). 2022 Jan;239(1):297-311. doi: 
10.1007/s00213-021-05994-6. Epub 2022 Jan 13.

Involvement of oxidative pathways and BDNF in the antidepressant effect of 
carvedilol in a depression model induced by chronic unpredictable stress.

de Sousa CNS(1), Medeiros IDS(1), Vasconcelos GS(1), de Aquino GA(1), Cysne 
Filho FMS(1), de Almeida Cysne JC(1), Macêdo DS(1), Vasconcelos SMM(2).

Author information:
(1)Neuropsychopharmacology Laboratory, Drug Research and Development Center, 
Department of Physiology and Pharmacology, Faculty of Medicine, Federal 
University of Ceará, Fortaleza, Ceará, Brazil.
(2)Neuropsychopharmacology Laboratory, Drug Research and Development Center, 
Department of Physiology and Pharmacology, Faculty of Medicine, Federal 
University of Ceará, Fortaleza, Ceará, Brazil. 
silvania_vasconcelos@yahoo.com.br.

RATIONALE: Depression is a severe psychiatric disorder with oxidative imbalance 
and neurotrophic deficits as underlying mechanisms.
OBJECTIVES: Based on the antioxidant effects of carvedilol (CARV), here, we 
aimed to evaluate CARV's effects against depression induced by the chronic 
unpredictable stress (CUS) model.
METHODS: Female Swiss mice were submitted to the CUS protocol for 21 days. 
Between days 15 and 22, the animals received CARV (5 or 10 mg/kg) or 
desvenlafaxine (DVS 10 mg/kg) orally. On the 22nd day, mice were subjected to 
behavioral tests to evaluate locomotion, depressive-like behavior (tail 
suspension test), motivation/self-care with the splash test (ST), social 
interaction, and working memory Y-maze test. The prefrontal cortex (PFC) and 
hippocampus were dissected to evaluate alterations of oxidative and 
brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF).
RESULTS: The CUS model reduced locomotion and increased grooming latency, while 
it reduced the number of groomings in the ST. Both doses of CARV and DVS 
reverted these alterations. In addition, DVS and CARV reversed CUS model-induced 
working memory and social interaction deficits. The CUS model decreased 
hippocampal reduced glutathione (GSH), while DVS and CARV increased GSH in the 
PFC (CARV5) and hippocampus (CARV5 and 10). The CUS model increased nitrite and 
malondialdehyde (MDA) concentrations in both areas. All treatments reversed 
nitrite alterations, while CARV10 changed MDA levels in PFC and all treatments 
in the hippocampus. The CUS model reduced BDNF levels. CARV10 increased BDNF in 
the PFC, while both doses of CARV increased hippocampal levels of this 
neurotrophin.
CONCLUSIONS: CARV presents antidepressant-like effects comparable to those 
observed with DVS. In addition, it has an antioxidant effect and is capable of 
increasing BDNF brain concentrations. Further studies are needed to elucidate 
the mechanisms involved in the antidepressant effect of CARV.

© 2021. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer-Verlag GmbH Germany, 
part of Springer Nature.

DOI: 10.1007/s00213-021-05994-6
PMID: 35022822 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


160. Neuropsychobiology. 2022;81(3):237-245. doi: 10.1159/000521185. Epub 2022
Jan  11.

Electroacupuncture Prevents the Depression-Like Behavior by Inhibiting the 
NF-κB/NLRP3 Inflammatory Pathway in Hippocampus of Mice Subjected to Chronic 
Mild Stress.

Wang Q(1), Bi H(2), Huang H(1), Wang Y(1), Gong L(1), Qi N(1), Li D(1), Jin 
X(1), Xu T(1), Shi B(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychiatry and Psychology, General Hospital of Northern Theater 
Command, Shenyang, China.
(2)Fourth psychiatric ward, Daqing Third Hospital, Daqing, China.
(3)Department of Neurology, The Second Affiliated Hospital of Shenyang Medical 
College, Shenyang, China.

BACKGROUND: The precise physiological mechanisms of acupuncture in the treatment 
of depression are still unknown. This study aimed to observe the effects of 
electroacupuncture (EA) on depression-like behavior of mouse in chronic mild 
stress (CMS) model and explore the underlying mechanism.
METHODS: The depression model was established by using CMS method for 6 weeks. 
After the third week of the CMS paradigm, EA treatment was performed daily for 
15 min over a period of 3 weeks. The antidepressant-like effects of EA were 
evaluated using the sucrose preference test and the forced swimming test (FST). 
The protein levels of the nuclear factor-kappa B (NF-κB), p-NF-κB, inhibitor of 
NF-κB, p-IκBα, NOD-like receptor protein 3, interleukin (IL)-6, IL-1β, IL-18, 
and tumor necrosis factor-α (TNF-α) in hippocampus of mice were detected.
RESULTS: Sucrose preference was decreased after 6 weeks of CMS and the effects 
of CMS was reversed by EA. CMS increased immobility time and decreased latency 
to the first immobility in the FST test, but these effects were reversed by EA. 
CMS-induced nuclear entry of NF-κB (nuclear/cytoplasmic ratio of NF-κB) with an 
increase in protein levels of p-NF-κB and p-IκBα in the hippocampus. The CMS 
also increased NLRP3 levels in the hippocampus. However, these effects were 
reversed by EA. In addition, the levels of IL-6, IL-1β, IL-18, and TNF-α in the 
hippocampus were increased by CMS, and these effects of stress were reversed by 
EA.
CONCLUSION: EA prevented CMS-induced depressive-like behaviors by inhibiting 
NF-κB/NLRP3 inflammatory pathway.

© 2022 S. Karger AG, Basel.

DOI: 10.1159/000521185
PMID: 35016190 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


161. Bull Exp Biol Med. 2022 Jan;172(3):341-344. doi: 10.1007/s10517-022-05389-3.
 Epub 2022 Jan 10.

Effect of M2 Macrophage-Derived Soluble Factors on Behavioral Patterns and 
Cytokine Production in Various Brain Structures in Depression-Like Mice.

Markova EV(1), Shevela EY(2), Knyazeva MA(1), Savkin IV(1), Serenko EV(1), 
Rashchupkin IM(1), Amstislavskaya TG(3), Ostanin AA(1), Chernykh ER(1).

Author information:
(1)Research Institute of Fundamental and Clinical Immunology, Novosibirsk, 
Russia.
(2)Research Institute of Fundamental and Clinical Immunology, Novosibirsk, 
Russia. shevelak@mail.ru.
(3)Research Institute of Neurosciences and Medicine, Novosibirsk, Russia.

We studied the effect of soluble factors derived from human macrophages 
polarized to M2 phenotype under conditions of serum deprivation (M2-SF) on 
behavioral pattern and cytokine production in various brain structures in mice 
with modeled stress-induced depression. Intranasal administration of M2-SF for 7 
days led to stimulation of locomotor and exploratory activities and a decrease 
in emotional reactivity in the open-field test as well as reduction in 
depression-like behavior in Porsolt forced swimming test and a decrease in 
anxiety and anhedonia. Correction of depression-like behavior was accompanied by 
down-regulation of proinflammatory cytokines (IL-1β, IL-6, TNFα, and IFNγ) in 
pathogenetically important brain structures (striatum, hippocampus, and frontal 
cortex). These data indicate that the antidepressant potential of M2 type 
macrophages can be mediated by the anti-inflammatory effects of M2-SF.

© 2022. Springer Science+Business Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.

DOI: 10.1007/s10517-022-05389-3
PMID: 35001318 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


162. Front Nutr. 2021 Dec 16;8:784532. doi: 10.3389/fnut.2021.784532. eCollection
 2021.

Saccharina japonica Ethanol Extract Ameliorates Depression/Anxiety-Like Behavior 
by Inhibiting Inflammation, Oxidative Stress, and Apoptosis in Dextran Sodium 
Sulfate Induced Ulcerative Colitis Mice.

Dong X(1), Lu K(1), Lin P(1), Che H(1), Li H(1), Song L(1), Yang X(1), Xie W(1).

Author information:
(1)Shandong Provincial Key Laboratory of Biochemical Engineering, College of 
Marine Science and Biological Engineering, Qingdao University of Science and 
Technology, Qingdao, China.

Saccharina japonica is a common marine vegetable in East Asian markets and has a 
variety of health benefits. This study was focused on the 
anti-depressant/anxiety effects of Saccharina japonica ethanol extract (SJE) on 
dextran sodium sulfate (DSS)-induced mice and its potential mechanism in their 
brain. Male C57BL/6 mice were treated with mesalazine and various doses of SJE 
(1, 2, and 4 g/kg body weight) for 2 weeks, followed by DSS treatment at the 
second week. The DSS-induced mice showed depression/anxiety-like behavior, which 
included shorter path length in the open field test and longer immobility time 
in the tail suspension test. L-SJE alleviated the depression-like behaviors. In 
the DSS-induced mice, reduced synaptic plasticity activated microglia, increased 
proinflammatory cytokines, decreased anti-inflammatory cytokine, and increased 
expression levels of Toll-like receptors-4, nuclear factor kappa-B, NOD-like 
receptors 3, apoptosis-associated speck-like protein, and Caspase-1 were 
observed, most of which were alleviated by SJE treatment. Furthermore, all the 
SJE groups could significantly enhance superoxide dismutase activity, while the 
L-SJE treatment decreased the contents of malondialdehyde, and the H-SJE 
treatment inhibited apoptosis. All these results showed that the SJE might serve 
as a nutritional agent for protecting the brain in ulcerative colitis mice.

Copyright © 2021 Dong, Lu, Lin, Che, Li, Song, Yang and Xie.

DOI: 10.3389/fnut.2021.784532
PMCID: PMC8716690
PMID: 34977127

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that the research was 
conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial relationships that could 
be construed as a potential conflict of interest.


163. Biomed J. 2022 Dec;45(6):896-906. doi: 10.1016/j.bj.2021.12.008. Epub 2021
Dec  28.

Stress while lacking of control induces ventral hippocampal autophagic flux 
hyperactivity and a depression-like behavior.

Liao YH(1), Chan YH(1), Chen H(1), Yu AE(2), Sun LH(3), Yao WJ(4), Yu L(5).

Author information:
(1)Department of Physiology, National Cheng Kung University College of Medicine, 
Tainan, Taiwan.
(2)Chang Gung Memorial Hospital, Taoyuan, Taiwan.
(3)Institute of Basic Medical Sciences, and National Cheng Kung University 
College of Medicine, Tainan, Taiwan.
(4)Ditmanson Medical Foundation Chia-Yi Christian Hospital, Chiayi, Taiwan. 
Electronic address: 07568@cych.org.tw.
(5)Department of Physiology, National Cheng Kung University College of Medicine, 
Tainan, Taiwan; Institute of Basic Medical Sciences, and National Cheng Kung 
University College of Medicine, Tainan, Taiwan; Institute of Behavioral 
Medicine, National Cheng Kung University College of Medicine, Tainan, Taiwan. 
Electronic address: lungyu@mail.ncku.edu.tw.

BACKGROUND: Stressed animals may perform depression-like behavior insomuch as 
stress-provoking blood-brain barrier (BBB) disruption, central immune 
activation, and autophagic flux changes. This study was undertaken to assess 
whether adult mice having (executive) vs. lacking (yoke) of behavioral control 
in otherwise equivalent stress magnitude condition, may display differences in 
their BBB integrity, ventral hippocampal (VH) interleukin-6 (IL-6) and 
autophagic flux level and VH-related depression-like behavior. To further 
understand the causative relation of enhanced autophagic flux and stress-primed 
depression-like behavior, we assessed the effects of bilateral intra-VH 
3-methyladenine (3-MA), an autophagic flux inhibitor, infusion in stressed mice.
METHODS: Adult mice used had comparable genetic background and housing 
condition. Executive/yoke pairs of mice received a 10-day (1 h/day) footshock 
stressor regimen. Throughout the regimen, the ongoing footshock was terminated 
immediately contingent on the executive mouse', while irrelevant to the 
respective yoke mouse' voluntary behavior, or lasting for 7 s. Each dyad's 
cage-mate receiving no such regimen served as no stressor controls.
RESULTS: Yoke mice displayed disrupted BBB integrity (escalated Evans blue 
extravasation and decreased VH ZO-1, claudin-5 expression), increases in VH 
autophagic flux (increased LC3II/LC3I and decreased p62) and immobility duration 
in forced swimming test. Most of these indices remained unaltered in executive 
mice. Administration of 3-MA did not affect immobility duration in control mice, 
while prevented the increases in immobility duration in yoke mice.
CONCLUSIONS: (1) stress susceptibility may be determined by their differences in 
stress-coping results; (2) VH autophagic flux increase plays a permissive role 
in priming the stressed animals susceptible to exhibit depression-like behavior.

Copyright © 2021 Chang Gung University. Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights 
reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.bj.2021.12.008
PMCID: PMC9795357
PMID: 34971825 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Conflicts of interest None.


164. Life (Basel). 2021 Dec 1;11(12):1327. doi: 10.3390/life11121327.

Sex-Specific Social Effects on Depression-Related Behavioral Phenotypes in Mice.

Patel SD(1), Cameron LP(2), Olson DE(1)(3)(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Chemistry, University of California, Davis, One Shields Avenue, 
Davis, CA 95616, USA.
(2)Neuroscience Graduate Program, University of California, Davis, Davis, CA 
95618, USA.
(3)Department of Biochemistry & Molecular Medicine, School of Medicine, 
University of California, Davis, 2700 Stockton Blvd, Suite 2102, Sacramento, CA 
95817, USA.
(4)Center for Neuroscience, University of California, Davis, 1544 Newton Ct, 
Davis, CA 95618, USA.

Social interaction and empathy play critical roles in determining the emotional 
well-being of humans. Stress-related depression and anxiety can be exacerbated 
or mitigated depending on specific social conditions. Although rodents are well 
known to exhibit emotional contagion and consolation behavior, the effects of 
group housing on stress-induced phenotypes in both males and females are not 
well established. Here, we investigated how the presence of stressed or 
unstressed conspecifics within a cage impact depression-related phenotypes. We 
housed male and female C57BL/6J mice in same-sex groups and subjected them to 
either gentle handling (GH) or the daily administration of corticosterone (CORT) 
for 10 days. The GH and CORT treatment groups were divided into cages of unmixed 
(GH or CORT) and mixed (GH and CORT) treatments. Depression-related phenotypes 
were measured using the forced swim test (FST) and sucrose preference test 
(SPT). We found that mixed housing alters FST behavior in a sex-specific manner. 
Male mice given chronic corticosterone (CORT) that were housed in the same cage 
as gently handled animals (GH) exhibited increased immobility, whereas GH 
females housed with CORT females demonstrated the opposite effect. This study 
underscores the importance of social housing conditions when evaluating 
stress-induced behavioral phenotypes and suggests that mixed cages of GH and 
CORT animals yield the greatest difference between treatment groups. The latter 
finding has important implications for identifying therapeutics capable of 
rescuing stress-induced behavioral deficits in the FST.

DOI: 10.3390/life11121327
PMCID: PMC8705323
PMID: 34947858

Conflict of interest statement: DEO is a co-founder of Delix Therapeutics, Inc. 
and serves as the Chief Innovation Officer and Head of the Scientific Advisory 
Board. The funders had no role in the design of the study; in the collection, 
analyses, or interpretation of data; in the writing of the manuscript, or in the 
decision to publish the results.


165. J Basic Clin Physiol Pharmacol. 2021 Dec 16;33(5):633-638. doi: 
10.1515/jbcpp-2021-0282. eCollection 2022 Sep 1.

Alpha2-antiplasmin deficiency affects depression and anxiety-like behavior and 
apoptosis induced by stress in mice.

Kanno Y(1), Tsuchida K(1), Maruyama C(1), Hori K(1), Teramura H(1), Asahi S(1), 
Matsuo O(2), Ozaki KI(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Molecular Pathology, Faculty of Pharmaceutical Science, 
Doshisha Women's College of Liberal Arts, Kyoto, Japan.
(2)Faculty of Medicine, Kindai University, Osaka-sayama, Japan.

OBJECTIVES: Depression is a psychiatric disorder that affects about 10% of the 
world's population and is accompanied by anxiety. Depression and anxiety are 
often caused by various stresses. However, the etiology of depression and 
anxiety remains unknown. It has been reported that alpha2-antiplasmin (α2AP) not 
only inhibits plasmin but also has various functions such as cytokine production 
and cell growth. This study aimed to determine the roles of α2AP on the 
stress-induced depression and anxiety.
METHODS: We investigated the mild repeated restraint stress-induced depressive 
and anxiety-like behavior in the α2AP+/+ and α2AP-/- mice using the social 
interaction test (SIT), sucrose preference test (SPT), and elevated plus maze 
(EPM).
RESULTS: The stresses such as the mild repeated restraint stress suppressed α2AP 
expression in the hippocampus of mice, and the treatment of fluoxetine 
(selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor [SSRI]) recovered the stress-caused α2AP 
suppression. We also showed that α2AP deficiency promoted the mild restraint 
stress-stimulated depression-like behavior such as social withdrawal and apathy 
and apoptosis in mice. In contrast, α2AP deficiency attenuated the mild 
restraint stress induced the anxiety-like behavior in mice.
CONCLUSIONS: α2AP affects the pathogenesis of depression and anxiety induced by 
stress.

© 2021 Walter de Gruyter GmbH, Berlin/Boston.

DOI: 10.1515/jbcpp-2021-0282
PMID: 34913624 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


166. Bioengineered. 2021 Dec;12(2):11520-11532. doi:
10.1080/21655979.2021.2009964.

Expression and role of microRNA-212/nuclear factor I-A in depressive mice.

Si L(1), Wang Y(1), Liu M(1), Yang L(1), Zhang L(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychiatry, Wuhan Mental Health Center, Wuhan, China.
(2)Department of Psychiatry, Affiliated Wuhan Mental Health Center, Tongji 
Medical College of Huazhong University of Science & Technology, Wuhan, China.

Depression is characterized by persistent depressed mood and cognitive 
dysfunction, severely impacting human health. In the present study, we aimed to 
explore the role and mechanism of microRNA (miR)-212 in depression in vivo. 
Chronic unpredictable mild stress (CUMS) mice were established, and 
depression-like behaviors were confirmed using the forced swimming test (FST), 
sucrose preference test (SPT), and the tail suspension test (TST). Next, the 
expression of miR-212 and its potential target, i.e., nuclear factor I-A (NFIA), 
was verified using quantitative reverse transcription (qRT)-PCR analysis and 
Western blotting in CUMS mice. The effects of miR-212 and NFIA on 
depression-like behaviors, inflammatory response, and neuronal apoptosis were 
examined using FST, TST, SPT, enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) assay, 
and flow cytometry analysis. Finally, the relationship between miR-212 and NFIA 
was examined using a dual-luciferase reporter assay. Based on our findings, 
miR-212 was significantly upregulated, while NFIA was downregulated in CUMS 
mice. miR-212 overexpression could suppress the CUMS-induced weight loss, 
immobility time in FST and TST, and increased hippocampal neuronal apoptosis and 
pro-inflammatory cytokines levels. In addition, NFIA upregulation could 
partially reverse the effects of miR-212 mimic in CUMS mice. Accordingly, 
miR-212 could ameliorate CUMS-induced depression-like behavior in mice by 
targeting NFIA, indicating its protective role in depression.

DOI: 10.1080/21655979.2021.2009964
PMCID: PMC8810195
PMID: 34889698 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: No potential conflict of interest was reported 
by the author(s).


167. Transl Psychiatry. 2021 Dec 8;11(1):622. doi: 10.1038/s41398-021-01747-3.

Exercise rather than fluoxetine promotes oligodendrocyte differentiation and 
myelination in the hippocampus in a male mouse model of depression.

Tang J(1)(2), Liang X(2)(3), Dou X(4), Qi Y(4), Yang C(1)(2), Luo Y(2)(5), Chao 
F(1)(2), Zhang L(1)(2), Xiao Q(6), Jiang L(7), Zhou C(1)(2), Tang Y(8)(9).

Author information:
(1)Department of Histology and Embryology, Faculty of Basic Medical Sciences, 
Chongqing Medical University, Chongqing, 400016, P. R. China.
(2)Laboratory of Stem Cells and Tissue Engineering, Faculty of Basic Medical 
Sciences, Chongqing Medical University, Chongqing, 400016, P. R. China.
(3)Department of Pathologic Physiology, Faculty of Basic Medical Sciences, 
Chongqing Medical University, Chongqing, 400016, P. R. China.
(4)Institute of Life Science, Chongqing Medical University, Chongqing, 400016, 
P. R. China.
(5)Department of Physiology, Faculty of Basic Medical Sciences, Chongqing 
Medical University, Chongqing, 400016, P. R. China.
(6)Department of Radioactive Medicine, Faculty of Basic Medical Sciences, 
Chongqing Medical University, Chongqing, 400016, P. R. China.
(7)Lab Teaching & Management Center, Chongqing Medical University, Chongqing, 
400016, P. R. China.
(8)Department of Histology and Embryology, Faculty of Basic Medical Sciences, 
Chongqing Medical University, Chongqing, 400016, P. R. China. ytang062@163.com.
(9)Laboratory of Stem Cells and Tissue Engineering, Faculty of Basic Medical 
Sciences, Chongqing Medical University, Chongqing, 400016, P. R. China. 
ytang062@163.com.

Although selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor (SSRI) systems have been 
meaningfully linked to the clinical phenomena of mood disorders, 15-35% of 
patients do not respond to multiple SSRI interventions or even experience an 
exacerbation of their condition. As we previously showed, both running exercise 
and fluoxetine reversed depression-like behavior. However, whether exercise 
reverses depression-like behavior more quickly than fluoxetine treatment and 
whether this rapid effect is achieved via the promotion of oligodendrocyte 
differentiation and/or myelination in the hippocampus was previously unknown. 
Sixty male C57BL/6 J mice were used in the present study. We subjected mice with 
unpredictable chronic stress (UCS) to a 4-week running exercise trial (UCS + RN) 
or intraperitoneally injected them with fluoxetine (UCS + FLX) to address these 
uncertainties. At the behavioral level, mice in the UCS + RN group consumed 
significantly more sugar water in the sucrose preference test (SPT) at the end 
of the 7th week than those in the UCS group, while those in the UCS + FLX group 
consumed significantly more sugar water than mice in the UCS group at the end of 
the 8th week. The unbiased stereological results and immunofluorescence analyses 
revealed that running exercise, and not fluoxetine treatment, increased the 
numbers of CC1+ and CC1+/Olig2+/BrdU+ oligodendrocytes in the CA1 subfield in 
depressed mice exposed to UCS. Moreover, running exercise rather than fluoxetine 
increased the level of myelin basic protein (MBP) and the G-ratio of myelinated 
nerve fibers in the CA1 subfield in the UCS mouse model. Unlike fluoxetine, 
exercise promoted hippocampal myelination and oligodendrocyte differentiation 
and thus has potential as a therapeutic strategy to reduce depression-like 
behaviors induced by UCS.

© 2021. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1038/s41398-021-01747-3
PMCID: PMC8654899
PMID: 34880203 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no competing interests.


168. Bioengineered. 2021 Dec;12(2):11329-11341. doi:
10.1080/21655979.2021.2003676.

Paeoniflorin ameliorates chronic stress-induced depression-like behavior in mice 
model by affecting ERK1/2 pathway.

Tang M(1), Chen M(2), Li Q(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Nursing, Qiqihar Medical University, Qiqihar, Heilongjiang, 
China.
(2)Department of Enrolment and Employment, Qiqihar Medical University, Qiqihar, 
Heilongjiang, China.

Depression is a mental and emotional disorder that has made an opening great 
burden to the society. Paeoniflorin showed remarkable antidepressant-like 
effects in multiple animal models with depressive disorders. However, the 
molecule of paeoniflorin on depression is less studied. This study aims to 
explore the effect and the molecular mechanism of paeoniflorin on depression in 
a chronic restraint stress (CRS) mice model. CRS model of C57BL/6 J mice was set 
up. Sucrose preference test (SPT), tail suspension test (TST), open field test 
(OFT) and forced swimming test (FST) were used to assess depression symptoms. 
Immunofluorescence staining, quantitative reverse transcription-polymerase chain 
reaction (qRT-PCR) and western blotting were implemented to detect the 
expression changes of the proteins involved in extracellular signal-regulated 
kinase 1/2 (ERK1/2) signaling pathway. Results showed that paeoniflorin 
treatment decreased the degree of depression in the CRS mice. Further analysis 
showed that the expression of ERK1/2 proteins was significantly downregulated, 
while paeoniflorin could elevate the expression of ERK1/2 proteins in CRS mice. 
Finally, it showed that inhibiting signaling ERK1/2 pathway could aggravate the 
depressive behavior when treatment with ERK-specific inhibitor U0126, while the 
condition could be partially relieved when treated with paeoniflorin. In 
conclusion, the present study demonstrated that paeoniflorin attenuated chronic 
stress-induced depression-like behavior in mice by affecting the ERK1/2 pathway. 
These findings provided the basis for the molecular mechanism of paeoniflorin on 
the effect of depression, which support paeoniflorin might act as an important 
drug in the treatment of depression.

DOI: 10.1080/21655979.2021.2003676
PMCID: PMC8810059
PMID: 34872456 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that they have no competing 
interests.


169. Front Pharmacol. 2021 Nov 19;12:773562. doi: 10.3389/fphar.2021.773562. 
eCollection 2021.

Antidepressant Mechanism of Traditional Chinese Medicine Formula Xiaoyaosan in 
CUMS-Induced Depressed Mouse Model via RIPK1-RIPK3-MLKL Mediated Necroptosis 
Based on Network Pharmacology Analysis.

Yan ZY(1)(2), Jiao HY(1), Chen JB(1), Zhang KW(1), Wang XH(1), Jiang YM(1), Liu 
YY(1), Xue Z(1), Ma QY(3), Li XJ(3), Chen JX(1)(3).

Author information:
(1)School of Traditional Chinese Medicine, Beijing University of Chinese 
Medicine, Beijing, China.
(2)Dongfang Hospital Affiliated to Beijing University of Chinese Medicine, 
Beijing, China.
(3)Formula-pattern Research Center, School of Traditional Chinese Medicine, 
Jinan University, Guangzhou, China.

Background: Depression is a stress-related disorder that seriously threatens 
people's physical and mental health. Xiaoyaosan is a classical traditional 
Chinese medicine formula, which has been used to treat mental depression since 
ancient times. More and more notice has been given to the relationship between 
the occurrence of necroptosis and the pathogenesis of mental disorders. 
Objective: The purpose of present study is to explore the potential mechanism of 
Xiaoyaosan for the treatment of depression using network pharmacology and 
experimental research, and identify the potential targets of necroptosis 
underlying the antidepressant mechanism of Xiaoyaosan. Methods: The mice model 
of depression was induced by chronic unpredictable mild stress (CUMS) for 6 
weeks. Adult C57BL/6 mice were randomly divided into five groups, including 
control group, chronic unpredictable mild stress group, Xiaoyaosan treatment 
group, necrostatin-1 (Nec-1) group and solvent group. Drug intervention 
performed from 4th to 6th week of modeling. The mice in Xiaoyaosan treatment 
group received Xiaoyaosan by intragastric administration (0.254 g/kg/d), and 
mice in CUMS group received 0.5 ml physiological saline. Meanwhile, the mice in 
Nec-1 group were injected intraperitoneally (i.p.) with Nec-1 (10 mg/kg/d), and 
the equivalent volume of DMSO/PBS (8.3%) was injected into solvent group mice. 
The behavior tests such as sucrose preference test, forced swimming test and 
novelty-suppressed feeding test were measured to evaluate depressive-like 
behaviors of model mice. Then, the active ingredients in Xiaoyaosan and the 
related targets of depression and necroptosis were compiled through appropriate 
databases, while the "botanical drugs-active ingredients-target genes" network 
was constructed by network pharmacology analysis. The expressions of RIPK1, 
RIPK3, MLKL, p-MLKL were detected as critical target genes of necroptosis and 
the potential therapeutic target compounds of Xiaoyaosan. Furthermore, the 
levels of neuroinflammation and microglial activation of hippocampus were 
measured by detecting the expressions of IL-1β, Lipocalin-2 and IBA1, and the 
hematoxylin and eosin (H&E) stained was used to observe the morphology in 
hippocampus sections. Results: After 6-weeks of modeling, the behavioral data 
showed that mice in CUMS group and solvent group had obvious depressive-like 
behaviors, and the medication of Xiaoyaosan or Nec-1 could improve these 
behavioral changes. A total of 96 active ingredients in Xiaoyaosan which could 
regulate the 23 key target genes were selected from databases. Xiaoyaosan could 
alleviate the core target genes in necroptosis and improve the hippocampal 
function and neuroinflammation in depressed mice. Conclusion: The activation of 
necroptosis existed in the hippocampus of CUMS-induced mice, which was closely 
related to the pathogenesis of depression. The antidepressant mechanism of 
Xiaoyaosan included the regulation of multiple targets in necroptosis. It also 
suggested that necroptosis could be a new potential target for the treatment of 
depression.

Copyright © 2021 Yan, Jiao, Chen, Zhang, Wang, Jiang, Liu, Xue, Ma, Li and Chen.

DOI: 10.3389/fphar.2021.773562
PMCID: PMC8641697
PMID: 34867405

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that the research was 
conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial relationships that could 
be construed as a potential conflict of interest.


170. PLoS One. 2021 Nov 12;16(11):e0258364. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0258364. 
eCollection 2021.

Effects of Importin α1/KPNA1 deletion and adolescent social isolation stress on 
psychiatric disorder-associated behaviors in mice.

Sakurai K(1)(2), Itou T(3), Morita M(3), Kasahara E(4), Moriyama T(5), 
Macpherson T(1)(2)(3), Ozawa T(1)(2), Miyamoto Y(6), Yoneda Y(7), Sekiyama A(4), 
Oka M(6), Hikida T(1)(2)(3).

Author information:
(1)Laboratory for Advanced Brain Functions, Institute for Protein Research, 
Osaka University, Osaka, Japan.
(2)Department of Biological Sciences, Graduate School of Science, Osaka 
University, Osaka, Japan.
(3)Department of Research and Drug Discovery, Medical Innovation Center, Kyoto 
University Graduate School of Medicine, Kyoto, Japan.
(4)Advanced Pharmaco-science, Graduate School of Pharmaceutical Sciences, Osaka 
University, Osaka, Japan.
(5)Faculty of Medical Sciences, Department of Cell Biology and Biochemistry, 
University of Fukui, Fukui, Japan.
(6)Laboratory of Nuclear Transport Dynamics, National Institutes of Biomedical 
Innovation, Health and Nutrition, Osaka, Japan.
(7)National Institutes of Biomedical Innovation, Health and Nutrition, Osaka, 
Japan.

Expression of concern in
    PLoS One. 2023 Jan 11;18(1):e0280124.

Importin α1/KPNA1 is a member of the Importin α family widely present in the 
mammalian brain and has been characterized as a regulator of neuronal 
differentiation, synaptic functionality, and anxiety-like behavior. In humans, a 
de novo mutation of the KPNA1 (human Importin α5) gene has been linked with 
schizophrenia; however, the precise roles of KPNA1 in disorder-related behaviors 
are still unknown. Moreover, as recent studies have highlighted the importance 
of gene-environment interactions in the development of psychiatric disorders, we 
investigated the effects of Kpna1 deletion and social isolation stress, a 
paradigm that models social stress factors found in human patients, on 
psychiatric disorder-related behaviors in mice. Through assessment in a 
behavioral battery, we found that Kpna1 knockout resulted in the following 
behavioral phenotype: (1) decreased anxiety-like behavior in an elevated plus 
maze test, (2) short term memory deficits in novel object recognition test (3) 
impaired sensorimotor gating in a prepulse inhibition test. Importantly, 
exposure to social isolation stress resulted in additional behavioral 
abnormalities where isolated Kpna1 knockout mice exhibited: (1) impaired 
aversive learning and/or memory in the inhibitory avoidance test, as well as (2) 
increased depression-like behavior in the forced swim test. Furthermore, we 
investigated whether mice showed alterations in plasma levels of 
stress-associated signal molecules (corticosterone, cytokines, hormones, 
receptors), and found that Kpna1 knockout significantly altered levels of 
corticosterone and LIX (CXCL5). Moreover, significant decreases in the level of 
prolactin were found in all groups except for group-housed wild type mice. Our 
findings demonstrate that Kpna1 deletion can trigger widespread behavioral 
abnormalities associated with psychiatric disorders, some of which were further 
exacerbated by exposure to adolescent social isolation. The use of Kpna1 
knockout mice as a model for psychiatric disorders may show promise for further 
investigation of gene-environment interactions involved in the pathogenesis of 
psychiatric disorders.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0258364
PMCID: PMC8589199
PMID: 34767585 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors have declared that no competing 
interests exist.


171. J Tradit Complement Med. 2021 May 15;11(6):513-519. doi: 
10.1016/j.jtcme.2021.05.002. eCollection 2021 Nov.

Kihito prevents corticosterone-induced brain dysfunctions in mice.

Araki R(1), Tachioka H(1), Kita A(1), Fujiwara H(2), Toume K(3), Matsumoto K(2), 
Yabe T(1).

Author information:
(1)Laboratory of Functional Biomolecules and Chemical Pharmacology, Faculty of 
Pharmaceutical Sciences, Setsunan University, 45-1 Nagaotoge-cho, Hirakata, 
Osaka, 573-0101, Japan.
(2)Division of Medicinal Pharmacology, Institute of Natural Medicine, University 
of Toyama, 2630 Sugitani, Toyama, 930-0194, Japan.
(3)Division of Pharmacognosy, Institute of Natural Medicine, University of 
Toyama, 2630 Sugitani, Toyama, 930-0194, Japan.

Kihito (KIT; Gui Pi Tang) is a traditional herbal medicine that is used for 
treatment of neuropsychiatric disorders such as depression, anxiety, neurosis 
and insomnia in China and Japan. Recently, it has also been shown that KIT 
improves cognitive dysfunction in patients with Alzheimer's disease. In this 
study, to investigate the mechanisms underlying the effects of KIT on 
stress-induced brain dysfunctions such as a depressed state and memory 
impairment, we examined whether KIT prevents behavioral and neurophysiological 
abnormalities in mice treated chronically with corticosterone (CORT). CORT 
(40 mg/kg/day, s.c.) and KIT (1000 mg/kg/day, p.o.) were given to 7-week-old 
male ddY mice for 14 days. Twenty-four hours after the last treatment, 
depression-like behavior in the forced swim test, spatial memory in the Barnes 
maze test, cell survival and the number of new-born immature neurons, dendritic 
spine density and expression levels of mRNA for neurotrophic factors were 
analyzed. Depression-like behavior and spatial memory impairment were observed 
in CORT-treated mice without KIT treatment. Hippocampal cell survival, the 
number of hippocampal new-born immature neurons, hippocampal and accumbal 
dendritic spine density and mRNA levels for neurotrophic factors such as glial 
cell line-derived neurotrophic factor (GDNF) were decreased in CORT-treated mice 
without KIT treatment. KIT prevented CORT-induced depression-like behavior, 
spatial memory impairment, and decreases in hippocampal cell survival, the 
number of hippocampal new-born immature neurons, accumbal dendritic spine 
density and GDNF mRNA. KIT may ameliorate stress-induced brain dysfunctions via 
prevention of adverse effects of CORT on cell survival, new-born immature 
neurons, spine density and neurotrophic factors.

© 2021 Center for Food and Biomolecules, National Taiwan University. Production 
and hosting by Elsevier Taiwan LLC.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jtcme.2021.05.002
PMCID: PMC8572719
PMID: 34765515

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflicts of interest.


172. IBRO Neurosci Rep. 2021 Oct 8;11:164-174. doi: 10.1016/j.ibneur.2021.10.001.
 eCollection 2021 Dec.

Effects of treadmill exercise on anxiety-like behavior in association with 
changes in estrogen receptors ERα, ERβ and oxytocin of C57BL/6J female mice.

He FQ(1)(2), Fan MY(1)(2), Hui YN(1)(2), Lai RJ(1)(2), Chen X(1)(2), Yang 
MJ(1)(2), Cheng XX(1)(2), Wang ZJ(1)(2), Yu B(1)(2), Yan BJ(1)(2), Tian Z(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Key Laboratory of Natural Product Development and Anticancer Innovative Drug 
Research in Qinling, Xi'an 710065, China.
(2)Genetic Engineering Laboratory, College of Biological and Environmental 
Engineering, Xi'an University, Xi'an 710065, China.

Exercise can reduce the incidence of stress-related mental diseases, such as 
depression and anxiety. Control group was neither exposed to CVMS nor TRE 
(noCVMS/noTRE). Females were tested and levels of serum17-beta-oestradiol (E2), 
estrogen receptors α immunoreactive neurons (ERα-IRs), estrogen receptors β 
immunoreactive neurons (ERβ-IRs) and oxytocin immunoreactive neurons (OT-IRs) 
were measured. The results showed there's increased anxiety-like behaviors for 
mice from CVMS/noTRE, CVMS/higher speed TRE (CVMS/HTRE) and noCVMS/HTRE groups 
when they were put in open field and elevated maze tests. They had lower serum 
E2 levels than mice from CVMS/low-moderate speed TRE (CVMS/LMTRE), noCVMS/LMTRE 
and noCVMS/noTRE groups. The three groups of CVMS/noTRE, CVMS/HTRE and 
noCVMS/HTRE mice had more ERα-IRs and less ERβ-IRs in the medial preoptic area 
(mPOA), bed nucleus of the stria terminalis (BNST) and medial amygdala (MeA), 
hypothalamic paraventricular nucleus (PVN) and supraoptic nucleus (SON). The 
number of OT-IRs in PVN and SON of CVMS/noTRE, CVMS/HTRE and noCVMS/HTRE mice 
was also lower than that of mice from CVMS/LMTRE, noCVMS/LMTRE and noCVMS/noTRE 
groups. Interestingly, CVMS/LMTRE and noCVMS/LMTRE mice were similar to 
noCVMS/noTRE mice in that they did not show anxiety, while CVMS/HTRE and 
noCVMS/HTRE mice did not, which were similar to the mice in CVMS/noTRE. We 
propose that LMTRE instead of HTRE changes the serum concentration of E2. 
ERβ/ERα ratio and OT level in the brain may be responsible for the decrease in 
anxiety-like behavior in female mice exposed to anxiety-inducing stress 
conditions.

© 2021 Published by Elsevier Ltd on behalf of International Brain Research 
Organization.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ibneur.2021.10.001
PMCID: PMC8551837
PMID: 34746914

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no competing financial 
interests.


173. Biochem Biophys Rep. 2021 Oct 12;28:101152. doi:
10.1016/j.bbrep.2021.101152.  eCollection 2021 Dec.

Effects of semi-purified diet on depressive behaviors in aged mice.

Takahashi E(1), Ono E(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Biomedicine, Graduate School of Medical Sciences, Kyushu 
University, 3-1-1 Maidashi, Higashi-ku, Fukuoka, 812-8582, Japan.

Diet is a key modifiable factor influencing the composition of gut microbiota. 
There are two types of commercially available diets for experimental animals: 
non-purified and semi-purified diets. Non-purified diets are composed of complex 
ingredients from multiple sources, while semi-purified diets are formulated with 
refined ingredients. Accumulating evidence has demonstrated a link between the 
gut microbiota and depression, and feed ingredients may influence depressive 
physiology and behaviors. To test this hypothesis, we examined how chronic 
non-purified (CRF-1) and semi-purified (AIN-93G) diets affected phenotypes, 
including depressive behaviors, plasma corticosterone levels, and 
small-intestine microbiota in young (2 months old) and aged (22 months old) 
inbred C57BL/JJcl mice. In young mice, similar phenotypes were associated with 
non-purified and semi-purified diets. However, in aged mice, semi-purified diets 
increased depressive behaviors in the tail suspension (P < 0.05) and forced 
swimming tests (P < 0.01). The corticosterone levels were similar between the 
two diets under normal rearing conditions. However, immediately after exposure 
to the stressful conditions of the forced swimming test, the corticosterone 
levels in the aged mice fed the semi-purified diet were higher than those of 
mice fed the non-purified diet (P < 0.05). There were fewer Lactobacillales in 
the small intestines of aged mice fed the semi-purified diet compared to those 
fed the non-purified diet (P < 0.01). Further, α-diversity was lower in aged 
mice fed the semi-purified versus non-purified diet (P < 0.01). Our results 
indicate that host physiology and gut microbiota differed according to whether 
the aged mice were fed a non-purified or semi-purified diet. Specifically, those 
fed the semi-purified diet were more vulnerable to stress than age-matched mice 
fed the non-purified diet. Our findings indicate that researchers should 
consider the effects of feed ingredients on depressive physiology and behaviors, 
and select diets that are appropriate for their particular research design. 
Further, identification of the ingredients in non-purified diets could 
facilitate examination of the mechanisms by which gut microbiota composition 
might increase resistance to stress and depression.

© 2021 The Authors.

DOI: 10.1016/j.bbrep.2021.101152
PMCID: PMC8521119
PMID: 34703907


174. Biomedicines. 2021 Sep 22;9(10):1293. doi: 10.3390/biomedicines9101293.

Chronic Lithium Treatment Affects Anxious Behaviors and theExpression of 
Serotonergic Genes in Midbrain Raphe Nuclei of Defeated Male Mice.

Smagin DA(1), Kovalenko IL(1), Galyamina AG(1), Belozertseva IV(2), Tamkovich 
NV(3), Baranov KO(4), Kudryavtseva NN(1)(5)(6).

Author information:
(1)FRC Institute of Cytology and Genetics, Siberian Branch of Russian Academy of 
Sciences, 630090 Novosibirsk, Russia.
(2)Valdman Institute of Pharmacology, First Pavlov State Medical University of 
St. Petersburg, 197022 St. Petersburg, Russia.
(3)Biolabmix, 630090 Novosibirsk, Russia.
(4)Institute of Molecular and Cellular Biology, Siberian Branch of Russian 
Academy of Sciences, 630090 Novosibirsk, Russia.
(5)Pavlov Institute of Physiology, Russian Academy of Sciences, 188680 St. 
Petersburg, Russia.
(6)Head of Neuropathology Modeling Laboratory, Institute of Cytology and 
Genetics SB RAS, pr. Ac. Lavrentjev, 10, 630090 Novosibirsk, Russia.

There is experimental evidence that chronic social defeat stress is accompanied 
by the development of an anxiety, development of a depression-like state, and 
downregulation of serotonergic genes in midbrain raphe nuclei of male mice. Our 
study was aimed at investigating the effects of chronic lithium chloride (LiCl) 
administration on anxiety behavior and the expression of serotonergic genes in 
midbrain raphe nuclei of the affected mice. A pronounced anxiety-like state in 
male mice was induced by chronic social defeat stress in daily agonistic 
interactions. After 6 days of this stress, defeated mice were chronically 
treated with saline or LiCl (100 mg/kg, i.p., 2 weeks) during the continuing 
agonistic interactions. Anxiety was assessed by behavioral tests. RT-PCR was 
used to determine Tph2, Htr1a, Htr5b, and Slc6a4 mRNA expression. The results 
revealed anxiolytic-like effects of LiCl on social communication in the 
partition test and anxiogenic-like effects in both elevated plus-maze and social 
interaction tests. Chronic LiCl treatment upregulated serotonergic genes in 
midbrain raphe nuclei. Thus, LiCl effects depend on the treatment mode, 
psycho-emotional state of the animal, and experimental context (tests). It is 
assumed that increased expression of serotonergic genes is accompanied by 
serotonergic system activation and, as a side effect, by higher anxiety.

DOI: 10.3390/biomedicines9101293
PMCID: PMC8533389
PMID: 34680410

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


175. Front Pharmacol. 2021 Sep 29;12:680903. doi: 10.3389/fphar.2021.680903. 
eCollection 2021.

Ginsenoside Rb1 Produces Antidepressant-Like Effects in a Chronic Social Defeat 
Stress Model of Depression Through the BDNF-Trkb Signaling Pathway.

Jiang N(1), Huang H(1), Zhang Y(1), Lv J(1), Wang Q(2)(3), He Q(2), Liu X(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Research Center for Pharmacology and Toxicology, Institute of Medicinal Plant 
Development (IMPLAD), Chinese Academy of Medical Sciences and Peking Union 
Medical College, Beijing, China.
(2)Sino-Pakistan Center on Traditional Chinese Medicine, Hunan University of 
Medicine, Huaihua, China.
(3)Affiliated TCM Hospital/School of Pharmacy/Sino-Portugal TCM International 
Cooperation Center, Southwest Medical University, Luzhou, China.

Ginsenoside Rb1 (Rb1), an important bioactive ingredient of Panax ginseng, has 
potent neuroprotective effects. The objective of the study is to elucidate the 
impact of Rb1 treatment on chronic social defeat stress (CSDS)-induced 
depressive-like behaviors and its related mechanism. According to the obtained 
results, the daily oral administration of Rb1 (35 and 70 mg/kg) and imipramine 
(15 mg/kg) for 28 days significantly reversed the social avoidance behavior, 
anhedonia, and behavioral despair via CSDS exposure, as demonstrated by the 
considerable elevation in the time in the zone in the social interaction test, 
consumption of sucrose solution in the sucrose preference test, and decrease in 
immobility time in the forced swim test. Moreover, Rb1 obviously restored the 
CSDS-induced decrease in the BDNF signaling pathway and hippocampal 
neurogenesis. Rb1 significantly increased the hippocampal levels of ERK, AKT, 
and CREB phosphorylation and increased the number of DCX+ cells in DG. 
Importantly, the antidepressant effects of Rb1 were completely blocked in mice 
by using K252a (the nonselective tyrosine kinase B inhibitor). In conclusion, 
our results indicated that Rb1 exerts promising antidepressant-like effects in 
mice with CSDS-induced depression, and its effects were facilitated by enhancing 
the BDNF signaling cascade and upregulation of hippocampal neurogenesis.

Copyright © 2021 Jiang, Huang, Zhang, Lv, Wang, He and Liu.

DOI: 10.3389/fphar.2021.680903
PMCID: PMC8511306
PMID: 34658847

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that the research was 
conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial relationships that could 
be construed as a potential conflict of interest.


176. Front Behav Neurosci. 2021 Sep 30;15:734054. doi: 10.3389/fnbeh.2021.734054.
 eCollection 2021.

Chronic Social Defeat During Adolescence Induces Short- and Long-Term Behavioral 
and Neuroendocrine Effects in Male Swiss-Webster Mice.

Mancha-Gutiérrez HM(1), Estrada-Camarena E(2), Mayagoitia-Novales L(3), 
López-Pacheco E(1), López-Rubalcava C(1).

Author information:
(1)Departamento de Farmacobiología, CINVESTAV-Sede Sur Coapa, Mexico City, 
Mexico.
(2)Laboratorio de Neuropsicofarmacología, Dirección de Neurociencias, Instituto 
Nacional de Psiquiatría Ramón de la Fuente Muñiz, Mexico City, Mexico.
(3)Departamento de Etologia, Dirección de Neurociencias, Instituto Nacional de 
Psiquiatría Ramón de la Fuente Muñiz, Mexico City, Mexico.

Chronic stress exposure during adolescence is a significant risk factor for the 
development of depression. Chronic social defeat (CSD) in rodents is an animal 
model of depression with excellent ethological, predictive, discriminative, and 
face validity. Because the CSD model has not been thoroughly examined as a model 
of stress-induced depression within the adolescence stage, the present study 
analyzed the short- and long-term behavioral and neuroendocrine effects of CSD 
during early adolescence. Therefore, adolescent male Swiss-Webster (SW) mice 
were exposed to the CSD model from postnatal day (PND) 28 to PND37. Twenty-four 
hours (mid-adolescence) or 4 weeks (early adulthood) later, mice were tested in 
two models of depression; the social interaction test (SIT) and forced swimming 
test (FST); cognitive deficits were evaluated in the Barnes maze (BM). Finally, 
corticosterone and testosterone content was measured before, during, and after 
CSD exposure, and serotonin transporter (SERT) autoradiography was studied after 
CSD in adolescent and adult mice. CSD during early adolescence induced enduring 
depression-like behaviors as inferred from increased social avoidance and 
immobility behavior in the SIT and FST, respectively, which correlated in an 
age-dependent manner with SERT binding in the hippocampus; CSD during early 
adolescence also induced long-lasting learning and memory impairments in the 
Barnes maze (BM). Finally, CSD during early adolescence increased serum 
corticosterone levels in mid-adolescence and early adulthood and delayed the 
expected increase in serum testosterone levels observed at this age. In 
conclusion: (1) CSD during early adolescence induced long-lasting 
depression-like behaviors, (2) sensitivity of SERT density during normal brain 
development was revealed, (3) CSD during early adolescence induced enduring 
cognitive deficits, and (4) results highlight the vulnerability of the 
adolescent brain to social stressors on the adrenal and gonadal axes, which 
emphasizes the importance of an adequate interaction between both axes during 
adolescence for normal development of brain and behavior.

Copyright © 2021 Mancha-Gutiérrez, Estrada-Camarena, Mayagoitia-Novales, 
López-Pacheco and López-Rubalcava.

DOI: 10.3389/fnbeh.2021.734054
PMCID: PMC8514669
PMID: 34658806

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that the research was 
conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial relationships that could 
be construed as a potential conflict of interest.


177. Mol Med. 2021 Oct 15;27(1):127. doi: 10.1186/s10020-021-00389-x.

D-Serine produces antidepressant-like effects in mice through suppression of 
BDNF signaling pathway and regulation of synaptic adaptations in the nucleus 
accumbens.

Chen Z(#)(1), Tang Z(#)(1), Zou K(2), Huang Z(1), Liu L(1), Yang Y(3), Wang 
W(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology, The Second Affiliated Hospital of Nanchang 
University, Nanchang, 330006, Jiangxi, China.
(2)Jiangxi Mental Hospital of Nangchang University, 43 Shangfang Road, Nanchang, 
330029, Jiangxi, China.
(3)Jiangxi Mental Hospital of Nangchang University, 43 Shangfang Road, Nanchang, 
330029, Jiangxi, China. yuanjimyang@yeah.net.
(4)Department of Neurology, The Second Affiliated Hospital of Nanchang 
University, Nanchang, 330006, Jiangxi, China. wuhansy@126.com.
(#)Contributed equally

OBJECTIVE: D-Serine is a crucial endogenous co-agonist of N-methyl-D-aspartate 
receptors (NMDARs) in the central nervous system and can affect the function of 
the brain derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) system, which plays an essential 
role in modulating synaptic plasticity. The current study aimed to 
systematically evaluate the role and mechanisms of D-serine in depressive 
behavior in nucleus accumbens (NAc).
METHODS: D-Serine concentration in the chronic social defeat stress (CSDS) model 
in NAc was measured using high-performance liquid chromatography (HPLC). The 
antidepressant-like effects of D-serine were identified using forced swim test 
(FST) and tail suspension test (TST) in control mice and then assessed in CSDS 
model. We applied social interaction and sucrose preference tests to identify 
the susceptibility of CSDS model. Western blotting was further performed to 
assess the changes of BDNF signaling cascade in NAc after CSDS and D-serine 
treatment. The BDNF signaling inhibitor (K252a) was also used to clarify the 
antidepressant-like mechanism of D-serine. Moreover, D-serine effects on 
synaptic plasticity in NAc were investigated using electrophysiological methods.
RESULTS: D-Serine concentration was decreased in depression susceptible mice in 
NAc. D-Serine injections into NAc exhibited antidepressant-like effects in FST 
and TST without affecting the locomotor activity of mice. D-Serine was also 
effective in CSDS model of depression. Moreover, D-serine down-regulated the 
BDNF signaling pathway in NAc during CSDS procedure. Furthermore, BDNF signaling 
inhibitor (K252a) enhanced the antidepressant effects of D-serine. We also found 
that D-serine was essential for NMDARs-dependent long-term depression (LTD).
CONCLUSION: D-Serine exerts antidepressant-like effects in mice mediated through 
restraining the BDNF signaling pathway and regulating synaptic plasticity in 
NAc.

© 2021. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1186/s10020-021-00389-x
PMCID: PMC8518303
PMID: 34654365 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that they have no competing 
interests.


178. Biomed Pharmacother. 2021 Dec;144:112291. doi: 10.1016/j.biopha.2021.112291.
 Epub 2021 Oct 12.

Antidepressant- and anxiolytic-like activities of Rosmarinus officinalis extract 
in rodent models: Involvement of oxytocinergic system.

Sasaki K(1), Ferdousi F(2), Fukumitsu S(3), Kuwata H(4), Isoda H(5).

Author information:
(1)Alliance for Research on the Mediterranean and North Africa (ARENA), 
University of Tsukuba, 1-1-1 Tennodai, Tsukuba, Ibaraki 305-8572, Japan; Open 
Innovation Laboratory for Food and Medicinal Resource Engineering, National 
Institute of Advanced Industrial Science and Technology (AIST) and University of 
Tsukuba, 1-1-1 Tennodai, Tsukuba, Ibaraki 305-8572, Japan.
(2)Alliance for Research on the Mediterranean and North Africa (ARENA), 
University of Tsukuba, 1-1-1 Tennodai, Tsukuba, Ibaraki 305-8572, Japan; Open 
Innovation Laboratory for Food and Medicinal Resource Engineering, National 
Institute of Advanced Industrial Science and Technology (AIST) and University of 
Tsukuba, 1-1-1 Tennodai, Tsukuba, Ibaraki 305-8572, Japan; Faculty of Life and 
Environmental Sciences, University of Tsukuba, 1-1-1 Tennodai, Tsukuba, Ibaraki 
305-8572, Japan.
(3)Alliance for Research on the Mediterranean and North Africa (ARENA), 
University of Tsukuba, 1-1-1 Tennodai, Tsukuba, Ibaraki 305-8572, Japan; Tsukuba 
Life Science Innovation Program (T-LSI), University of Tsukuba, 1-1-1 Tennodai, 
Tsukuba, 305-8577 Ibaraki, Japan.
(4)Alliance for Research on the Mediterranean and North Africa (ARENA), 
University of Tsukuba, 1-1-1 Tennodai, Tsukuba, Ibaraki 305-8572, Japan.
(5)Alliance for Research on the Mediterranean and North Africa (ARENA), 
University of Tsukuba, 1-1-1 Tennodai, Tsukuba, Ibaraki 305-8572, Japan; Open 
Innovation Laboratory for Food and Medicinal Resource Engineering, National 
Institute of Advanced Industrial Science and Technology (AIST) and University of 
Tsukuba, 1-1-1 Tennodai, Tsukuba, Ibaraki 305-8572, Japan; Faculty of Life and 
Environmental Sciences, University of Tsukuba, 1-1-1 Tennodai, Tsukuba, Ibaraki 
305-8572, Japan; Tsukuba Life Science Innovation Program (T-LSI), University of 
Tsukuba, 1-1-1 Tennodai, Tsukuba, 305-8577 Ibaraki, Japan. Electronic address: 
isoda.hiroko.ga@u.tsukuba.ac.jp.

BACKGROUND: Oxytocin (OXT), a neuropeptide involved in mammal reproductive and 
prosocial behaviors, has been reported to interact with various 
stressor-provoked neurobiological changes, including neuroendocrine, 
neurotransmitter, and inflammatory processes. In view of disturbances in 
psychosocial relationships due to social isolation and physical distancing 
measures amid the COVID-19 pandemic, being one of the triggering factors for the 
recent rise in depression and anxiety, OXT is a potential candidate for a new 
antidepressant.
METHODS: In this present study, we have aimed to investigate the effects of oral 
administration of Rosmarinus officinalis extract (RE), extracted from 
distillation residue of rosemary essential oil, on central OXT level in the 
context of other stress biomarkers and neurotransmitter levels in mice models. 
Tail suspension test (TST) and elevated plus maze test (EPMT) following LPS 
injection were employed to assess depressive- and anxiety-like behavior in mice, 
respectively.
FINDINGS: Pretreatment with RE for seven days significantly improved behavior in 
TST and EPMT. Whole-genome microarray analysis reveals that RE significantly 
reversed TST stress-induced alterations in gene expressions related to 
oxytocinergic and neurotransmitter pathways and inflammatory processes. In both 
models, RE significantly increased central Oxt and Oxtr expressions, as well as 
OXT protein levels. RE also significantly attenuated stress-induced changes in 
serum corticosterone, brain and serum BDNF levels, and brain neurotransmitters 
levels in both models.
INTERPRETATION: Altogether, our study is the first to report antidepressant- and 
anxiolytic-like activities of RE through modulating oxytocinergic system in mice 
brain and thus highlights the prospects of RE in the treatment of depressive 
disorders of psychosocial nature.

Copyright © 2021 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Masson SAS.. All rights 
reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.biopha.2021.112291
PMID: 34653760 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


179. Neuroscience. 2021 Dec 15;479:48-59. doi:
10.1016/j.neuroscience.2021.10.005.  Epub 2021 Oct 11.

MiR-186-5p Dysregulation Leads to Depression-like Behavior by De-repressing 
SERPINF1 in Hippocampus.

Jiang M(1), Gu YF(2), Cai JF(2), Wang A(2), He Y(2), Feng YL(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychology, Wuxi Matemal and Child Health Hospital Affiliated 
to Nanjing Medical University, Wuxi, Jiangsu Province 214002, PR China.
(2)Department of Women Health Care, Wuxi Matemal and Child Health Hospital 
Affiliated to Nanjing Medical University, Wuxi, Jiangsu Province 214002, PR 
China.
(3)Department of Women Health Care, Wuxi Matemal and Child Health Hospital 
Affiliated to Nanjing Medical University, Wuxi, Jiangsu Province 214002, PR 
China. Electronic address: 13600182648@njmu.edu.cn.

Diagnosis of major depressive disorder (MDD) is perplexing due to its 
multifactorial etiologies. Here, we isolated exosomes from the peripheral blood 
of MDD patients and healthy control subjects for mass spectrometry-based 
label-free quantitative proteomics. We identified that SERPINF1 is significantly 
diminished in the peripheral blood-derived exosomes of MDD patients compared to 
the healthy control subjects. Through RNA immunoprecipitation and luciferase 
reporter assays, we validated that SERPINF1 is a target of miR-186-5p that is 
upregulated in MDD patients' blood. In vivo studies in the chronic unpredictable 
mild stress (CUMS) mice further demonstrated that SERPINF1 in hippocampus is 
suppressed by miR-186-5p. Inhibiting the microRNA significantly restores the 
hippocampal SERPINF1 mRNA and protein expression, and ameliorates the 
depressive-like behaviors including sucrose preference and extended immobility 
time in the forced swim test. Instead, overexpressing miR-186-5p through tail 
intravenous injection of the mimics molecularly and behaviorally phenocopies the 
CUMS mice in wild-type mice. Our results indicate that the exosomal SERPINF1 in 
peripheral blood could serve as a reliable biomarker indicating MDD development, 
and miR-186-5p is a potential therapeutic target for the disease.

Copyright © 2021. Published by Elsevier Ltd.

DOI: 10.1016/j.neuroscience.2021.10.005
PMID: 34648865 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


180. Brain Behav Immun. 2022 Jan;99:177-191. doi: 10.1016/j.bbi.2021.10.002. Epub
 2021 Oct 5.

Beneficial effects of QTC-4-MeOBnE in an LPS-induced mouse model of depression 
and cognitive impairments: The role of blood-brain barrier permeability, NF-κB 
signaling, and microglial activation.

Fronza MG(1), Baldinotti R(1), Fetter J(1), Rosa SG(2), Sacramento M(3), 
Nogueira CW(2), Alves D(3), Praticò D(4), Savegnago L(5).

Author information:
(1)Neurobiotechnology Research Group (GPN) - Centre for Technology Development 
CDTec, Federal University of Pelotas (UFPel), Pelotas, RS, Brazil.
(2)Laboratory of Synthesis, Reactivity and Pharmacological and Toxicological 
Evaluation of Organocalcogens, Center for Natural and Exact Sciences, Federal 
University of Santa Maria, UFSM, Santa Maria, RS, Brazil.
(3)Laboratory of Clean Organic Synthesis (LASOL), Center for Chemical, 
Pharmaceutical and Food Sciences (CCQFA), UFPel, RS, Brazil.
(4)Alzheimer's Center at Temple - ACT, Temple University, Lewis Katz School of 
Medicine, Philadelphia, PA, United States.
(5)Neurobiotechnology Research Group (GPN) - Centre for Technology Development 
CDTec, Federal University of Pelotas (UFPel), Pelotas, RS, Brazil. Electronic 
address: luciellisavegnago@yahoo.com.br.

Clinical and preclinical investigations have suggested a possible biological 
link betweenmajor depressive disorder (MDD) and Alzheimer's disease (AD). 
Therefore, a pharmacologic approach to treating MDD could be envisioned as a 
preventative therapy for some AD cases. In line with this, 
1-(7-chloroquinolin-4-yl)-N-(4-methoxybenzyl)-5-methyl-1H-1,2,3-triazole-4 
carboxamide (QTC-4-MeOBnE) is characterized as an inhibitor of β-secretase, 
glycogen synthase kinase 3β, and acetylcholinesterase and has also shown 
secondary effects underlying the modulation of neurogenesis and synaptic 
plasticity pathways. Therefore, we investigated the effects of QTC-4-MeOBnE 
treatment (0.1 or 1 mg/kg) on depressive-like behavior and cognitive impairments 
elicited by repeated injections of lipopolysaccharide (LPS; 250 μg/kg) in mice. 
Injections of LPS for seven days led to memory impairments and depressive-like 
behavior, as evidenced in the Y-maze/object recognition test and forced 
swimming/splash tests, respectively. However, these impairments were prevented 
in mice that, after the last LPS injection, were also treated with QTC-4-MeOBnE 
(1 mg/kg). This effect was associated with restoring blood-brain barrier 
permeability, reducing oxidative/nitrosative biomarkers, and decreasing 
neuroinflammation mediated NF-κB signaling in the hippocampus and cortex of the 
mice. To further investigate the involvement with NF-κB signaling, we evaluated 
the effects of QTC-4-MeOBnE on microglial cell activation through canonical and 
non-canonical pathways and the modulation of the involved components. Together, 
our findings highlight the pharmacological benefits of QTC-4-MeOBnE in a mouse 
model of sickness behavior and memory impairments, supporting the novel concept 
that since this molecule produces anti-depressant activity, it could also be 
beneficial for preventing AD onset and related dementias in subjects suffering 
from MDD through inflammatory pathway modulation.

Copyright © 2021 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.bbi.2021.10.002
PMID: 34624485 [Indexed for MEDLINE]181. J Psychiatr Res. 2021 Dec;144:118-128. doi:
10.1016/j.jpsychires.2021.09.057.  Epub 2021 Sep 30.

The resilient phenotype elicited by ketamine against inflammatory 
stressors-induced depressive-like behavior is associated with NLRP3-driven 
signaling pathway.

Camargo A(1), Dalmagro AP(2), Wolin IAV(3), Kaster MP(4), Rodrigues ALS(5).

Author information:
(1)Department of Biochemistry, Center of Biological Sciences, Universidade 
Federal de Santa Catarina, Florianópolis, 88040-900, SC, Brazil. Electronic 
address: camargo.andersonc@gmail.com.
(2)Department of Natural Sciences, Center of Exact and Natural Sciences, 
Universidade Regional de Blumenau, 89030-903, Blumenau, SC, Brazil. Electronic 
address: anap.dalmagro@gmail.com.
(3)Department of Biochemistry, Center of Biological Sciences, Universidade 
Federal de Santa Catarina, Florianópolis, 88040-900, SC, Brazil. Electronic 
address: ingridwolin@yahoo.com.
(4)Department of Biochemistry, Center of Biological Sciences, Universidade 
Federal de Santa Catarina, Florianópolis, 88040-900, SC, Brazil. Electronic 
address: manu.kaster@gmail.com.
(5)Department of Biochemistry, Center of Biological Sciences, Universidade 
Federal de Santa Catarina, Florianópolis, 88040-900, SC, Brazil. Electronic 
address: ana.l.rodrigues@ufsc.br.

Ketamine has emerged as a prophylactic agent against depressive-like behavior 
induced by stress. However, the possible pro-resilience effects of ketamine 
against inflammatory stressors-induced depressive-like behavior and the 
signaling pathways associated with this response remain to be determined. 
Therefore, this study investigated the ability of prophylactic ketamine 
administration to produce a pro-resilience effect against the depressive-like 
behavior induced by lipopolysaccharide (LPS - 0.83 mg/kg, i.p.) and tumor 
necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-α - 0.1 fg/site, i.c.v.) administration in mice. The 
possible contribution of the NLRP3 inflammasome-driven signaling pathway to this 
effect was evaluated in the ventral hippocampus. A single administration of 
ketamine (5 mg/kg, i.p.) given 1 week before the LPS or TNF-α administration 
prevented the depressive-like behavior induced by these inflammatory stressors 
in the tail suspension test (TST) and splash test (SPT). On the other hand, a 
lower dose of ketamine (1 mg/kg, i.p.) failed to produce a similar effect. The 
administration of LPS, but not TNF-α, increased the immunocontent of the 
microglial marker Iba-1 in the ventral hippocampus. LPS increased the 
immunocontent of all proteins related to NLRP3 signaling, namely ASC, NLRP3, 
TXNIP, cleaved caspase-1, and IL-1β in this brain region, while TNF-α only 
increased ASC and NLRP3 immunocontent. Ketamine administered at the dose of 
5 mg/kg, but not at 1 mg/kg, prevented the increase on the immunocontent of 
NLRP3 inflammasome complex components and regulators induced by LPS or TNF-α 
administration. Collectively, these findings suggest that ketamine elicits a 
pro-resilient phenotype against inflammatory stressors-induced depressive-like 
behavior, an effect associated with the suppression of the NLRP3 
inflammasome-driven signaling pathway.

Copyright © 2021 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jpsychires.2021.09.057
PMID: 34619490 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


182. Drug Deliv. 2021 Dec;28(1):2137-2149. doi: 10.1080/10717544.2021.1986604.

Alginate nanogels-based thermosensitive hydrogel to improve antidepressant-like 
effects of albiflorin via intranasal delivery.

Xu D(1), Qiao T(1), Wang Y(1), Wang QS(2), Cui YL(1).

Author information:
(1)State Key Laboratory of Component-based Chinese Medicine, Research Center of 
Traditional Chinese Medicine, Tianjin University of Traditional Chinese 
Medicine, Tianjin, PR China.
(2)Tianjin Key Laboratory of Biomedical Materials, Institute of Biomedical 
Engineering, Chinese Academy of Medical Science & Peking Union Medical College, 
Tianjin, PR China.

Depression is a primary public health problem. However, current antidepressants 
work slowly, and together with side effects. Herein, the alginate nanogels were 
constructed to load albiflorin (albiflorin nanogels), which further formed 
albiflorin nanogel loaded self-assembled thermosensitive hydrogel system 
(albiflorin-NGSTH) and were used to improve its antidepressant effects. The 
nanogel showed a nano-scaled particle size and stronger antioxidant activity. 
Rheological studies showed that albiflorin-NGSTH had a sol-gel transition at 
approximately 28 °C. Albiflorin-NGSTH quickly entered the brain by intranasal 
delivery, and had a continuously release for albiflorin. Preliminary results of 
mice behavioral despair tests found that albiflorin-NGSTH had no effects on 
independent exploratory behavior and anxiety of the mice, and significantly 
decreased immobility duration of the mice in tail suspension test (TST). 
Moreover, the intranasally administrated albiflorin-NGSTH at a low dose improved 
depressive behavior, decreased levels of proinflammatory cytokines, and repaired 
neuronal damage of chronic unpredictable mild stress (CUMS) rats, which 
indicated an excellent potential for depression therapy. The treatment of 
albiflorin-NGSTH on depressive disorder was achieved by regulating signal 
pathway related to depression. Therefore, albiflorin-NGSTH has an excellent 
potential for clinical application in intranasal drug delivery systems.

DOI: 10.1080/10717544.2021.1986604
PMCID: PMC8510626
PMID: 34617853 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors report no conflicts of interest in 
this work.


183. Front Oncol. 2021 Sep 16;11:703848. doi: 10.3389/fonc.2021.703848.
eCollection  2021.

Psychosocial Stress and Age Influence Depression and Anxiety-Related Behavior, 
Drive Tumor Inflammatory Cytokines and Accelerate Prostate Cancer Growth in 
Mice.

Bellinger DL(1), Dulcich MS(2), Molinaro C(1), Gifford P(1), Lorton D(3), 
Gridley DS(4), Hartman RE(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pathology & Human Anatomy, School of Medicine, Loma Linda 
University, Loma Linda, CA, United States.
(2)Department of Psychology, School of Behavioral Health, Loma Linda University, 
Loma Linda, CA, United States.
(3)Department of Psychology, Kent State University and the Kent Summa Initiative 
for Clinical and Translational Research, Summa Health System, Akron, OH, United 
States.
(4)Departments of Radiation Medicine and Biochemistry and Microbiology, School 
of Medicine, Loma Linda University, Loma Linda, CA, United States.

Prostate cancer (PCa) prevalence is higher in older men and poorer coping with 
psychosocial stressors effect prognosis. Yet, interactions between age, stress 
and PCa progression are underexplored. Therefore, we characterized the effects 
of age and isolation combined with restraint (2 h/day) for 14 days post-tumor 
inoculation on behavior, tumor growth and host defense in the immunocompetent, 
orthotopic RM-9 murine PCa model. All mice were tumor inoculated. 
Isolation/restraint increased sympathetic and hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal 
cortical activation, based on elevated serum 
3-methoxy-4-hydroxyphenylglycol/norepinephrine ratios and corticosterone levels, 
respectively. Elevated zero maze testing revealed age-related differences in 
naïve C57Bl/6 mice, and increased anxiety-like behavior in tumor-bearing mice. 
In open field testing, old stressed mice were less active throughout the 30-min 
test than young non-stressed and stressed, and old non-stressed mice, suggesting 
greater anxiety in old stressed mice. Old (18 month) mice demonstrated more 
depression-like behavior than young mice with tail suspension testing, without 
effects of isolation/restraint stress. Old mice developed larger tumors, despite 
similar tumor expression of tumor vascular endothelial growth factor or 
transforming growth factor-beta1 across age. Tumor chemokine/cytokine 
expression, commonly prognostic for poorer outcomes, were uniquely age- and 
stress-dependent, underscoring the need for PCa research in old animals. 
Macrophages predominated in RM-9 tumors. Macrophages, and CD4+ and CD4+FoxP3+ 
T-cell tumor infiltration were greater in young mice than in old mice. Stress 
increased macrophage infiltration in old mice. Conversely, stress reduced 
intratumoral CD4+ and CD4+FoxP3+ T-cell numbers in young mice. CD8+ T-cell 
infiltration was similar across treatment groups. Our findings support that age- 
and psychological stress interacts to affect PCa outcomes by interfering with 
neural-immune mechanisms and affecting behavioral responses.

Copyright © 2021 Bellinger, Dulcich, Molinaro, Gifford, Lorton, Gridley and 
Hartman.

DOI: 10.3389/fonc.2021.703848
PMCID: PMC8481826
PMID: 34604038

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that the research was 
conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial relationships that could 
be construed as a potential conflict of interest.


184. Behav Neurol. 2021 Sep 20;2021:5346507. doi: 10.1155/2021/5346507.
eCollection  2021.

Endogenous Estrogen Influences Predator Odor-Induced Impairment of Cognitive and 
Social Behaviors in Aromatase Gene Deficiency Mice.

Gao Y(1), Ma L(2), Gao F(3), Sun Z(2), Zhang Z(2), Li Y(1), Li R(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Beijing Institute for Brain Disorders, Capital Medical University, Beijing, 
China.
(2)The National Clinical Research Center for Mental Disorders & Beijing key 
Laboratory of Mental Disorders, Beijing Anding Hospital, Capital Medical 
University, Beijing, China.
(3)School of Life Sciences, University of Science and Technology of China, 
Hefei, China.

Epidemiological studies have suggested that traumatic stress increases 
vulnerability to various mental disorders, such as dementia and psychiatric 
disorders. While women are more vulnerable than men to depression and anxiety, 
it is unclear whether endogenous estrogens are responsible for the underlying 
sex-specific mechanisms. In this study, the aromatase gene heterozygous (Ar+/-) 
mice were used as an endogenous estrogen deficiency model and age- and 
sex-matched wild type mice (WT) as controls to study the predator odor 
2,3,5-trimethyl-3-thiazoline- (TMT-) induced short- and long-term cognitive and 
social behavior impairments. In addition, the changes in brain regional 
neurotransmitters and their associations with TMT-induced changes in behaviors 
were further investigated in these animals. Our results showed TMT induced 
immediate fear response in both Ar+/- and WT mice regardless of sexes. TMT 
induced an acute impairment of novel object recognition memory and long-term 
social behavior impairment in WT mice, particularly in females, while Ar+/- mice 
showed impaired novel object recognition in both sexes and TMT-elevated social 
behaviors, particularly in males. TMT failed to induce changes in the prepulse 
inhibition (PPI) test in both groups. TMT resulted in a slight increase of 
DOPAC/DA ratio in the cortex and a significant elevation of this ratio in the 
striatum of WT mice. In addition, the ratio of HIAA/5-HT was significantly 
elevated in the cortex of TMT-treated WT mice, which was not found in 
TMT-treated Ar+/- mice. Taken together, our results indicate that TMT exposure 
can cause cognitive and social behavior impairments as well as change 
catecholamine metabolism in WT mice, and endogenous estrogen deficiency might 
desensitize the behavioral and neurochemical responses to TMT in Ar+/- mice.

Copyright © 2021 Yaner Gao et al.

DOI: 10.1155/2021/5346507
PMCID: PMC8478571
PMID: 34594430 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The author declares no conflict of interest.


185. Life Sci. 2021 Nov 15;285:119959. doi: 10.1016/j.lfs.2021.119959. Epub 2021
Sep  15.

Early life stress induces anxiety-like behavior during adulthood through 
dysregulation of neuronal plasticity in the basolateral amygdala.

Qin X(1), Liu XX(2), Wang Y(3), Wang D(4), Song Y(4), Zou JX(3), Pan HQ(3), Zhai 
XZ(3), Zhang YM(4), Zhang YB(5), Hu P(6), Zhang WH(7).

Author information:
(1)Jiangsu Province Key Laboratory of Anesthesiology, Xuzhou Medical University, 
Xuzhou, Jiangsu 221004, China; Laboratory of Fear and Anxiety Disorders, 
Institute of Life Science, Nanchang University, Nanchang 330031, China.
(2)Laboratory of Fear and Anxiety Disorders, Institute of Life Science, Nanchang 
University, Nanchang 330031, China; Neurology Department, the Second Xiangya 
Hospital, Central South University, Changsha 410011, China.
(3)Laboratory of Fear and Anxiety Disorders, Institute of Life Science, Nanchang 
University, Nanchang 330031, China.
(4)Jiangsu Province Key Laboratory of Anesthesiology, Xuzhou Medical University, 
Xuzhou, Jiangsu 221004, China.
(5)Department of Neurology, the Second Affiliated Hospital of Nanchang 
University, Nanchang 330006, China.
(6)Institute of Translational Medicine, Nanchang University, Nanchang 330001, 
China. Electronic address: canyhp@ncu.edu.cn.
(7)Laboratory of Fear and Anxiety Disorders, Institute of Life Science, Nanchang 
University, Nanchang 330031, China. Electronic address: whzhang@ncu.edu.cn.

AIMS: Early life stress (ELS) increases the risk of psychiatric diseases such as 
anxiety disorders and depression in later life. Hyperactivation of the 
basolateral amygdala (BLA) neurons plays a pivotal role in the pathogenesis of 
stress-related diseases. However, the functional roles of BLA neurons in 
ELS-induced anxiety disorders are not completely understood.
MAIN METHODS: Mice were subjected to maternal separation (MS) during postnatal 
days 3 to 21 to mimic ELS. Anxiety-like behavior was tested by open field test 
(OFT), elevated plus maze (EPM), and novelty suppressed feeding (NSF). Then, 
c-fos expression, a proxy for neuronal activity, was evaluated by 
immunofluorescence. Finally, synaptic transmission and intrinsic excitability 
were measured by whole-cell patch-clamp recordings.
KEY FINDINGS: MS significantly increased anxiety-like behavior in adulthood, as 
indicated by less time spent in the center area of the OFT, less time spent in 
and fewer entries to the open arms of the EPM, and increased latency to feed in 
NSF. Mechanistically, MS increased the expression of c-fos in BLA. MS enhanced 
the excitatory, but not inhibitory, synaptic transmission onto BLA projection 
neurons (PNs), which was caused by enhanced presynaptic glutamate release. 
Moreover, MS also markedly increased the intrinsic neuronal excitability of BLA 
PNs, probably due to the reduced medium afterhyperpolarization (mAHP) in BLA 
PNs.
SIGNIFICANCE: Our results suggest that the changes of neuronal activity and 
synaptic transmission in the BLA PNs may play a crucial role in ELS-induced 
anxiety-like behavior, and these findings provide new insights into the 
pathological mechanisms of stress-related anxiety disorders.

Copyright © 2021 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.lfs.2021.119959
PMID: 34536496 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


186. Brain Res. 2021 Dec 1;1772:147661. doi: 10.1016/j.brainres.2021.147661. Epub
 2021 Sep 13.

Quercetin reverses chronic unpredictable mild stress-induced depression-like 
behavior in vivo by involving nuclear factor-E2-related factor 2.

Guan Y(1), Wang J(2), Wu X(1), Song L(1), Wang Y(1), Gong M(1), Li B(1).

Author information:
(1)College of Pharmacy, Henan University of Chinese Medicine, Zhengzhou 450046, 
China.
(2)College of Pharmacy, Henan University of Chinese Medicine, Zhengzhou 450046, 
China; Co-construction Collaborative Innovation Center for Chinese Medicine and 
Respiratory Diseases by Henan & Education Ministry of P.R. China, Henan 
University of Chinese Medicine, Zhengzhou 450046, China. Electronic address: 
mjw98_2010@163.com.

Quercetin is a flavonoid compound rich in many natural plants with a wide range 
of pharmacological effects and nutritional value. Although previous studies have 
initially shown the antidepressant effect of quercetin in some models. However, 
the exact mechanism of the antidepressant effect of quercetin on the depression 
model induced by chronic unpredictable mild stress (CUMS) is still unclear or 
has not been clearly elucidated. The present study aimed to investigate the 
antidepressant effect of quercetin in vivo on a CUMS-induced depression model 
that is closest to human depression, and to explore its mechanism of action 
around nuclear factor-E2-related factor 2 (Nrf2) related signaling pathways, for 
the first time. Our results demonstrated that CUMS for 21 consecutive days 
caused significant decreases in the sucrose preference, and the horizontal score 
and vertical score in the open field test of mice respectively by 22.6%, 34.4%, 
and 66.6% (all P < 0.01), and a significant increase in the immobility time 
during the forced swimming test by 110.5% (P < 0.01), but fortunately, after 
chronic oral administration of high dose quercetin at 40 mg/kg, the 
abnormalities of the above indicators were significantly reversed by 26.2%, 
40.1%, 152.7%, 43.5% (all P < 0.01). Further western blot analysis showed that 
CUMS caused the phosphorylation or expression levels of phosphoinositide 
3-kinase (PI3K), protein kinase B (Akt), Nrf2 and heme oxygenase-1 (HO-1) 
proteins in the hippocampus of mice to significantly down-regulate by 60.0%, 
72.1%, 90.0% and 50.1% (all P < 0.01), while after chronic oral administration 
of high dose quercetin at 40 mg/kg, the abnormalities of these proteins were 
significantly up-regulated by 85.8%, 182.0%, 325.1% and 60.3% (all P < 0.01). In 
addition, CUMS also caused significant reduction in the levels of antioxidants 
including superoxide dismutase (SOD) and glutathione-s transferase (GST) in the 
mice hippocampus by 51.3%, 40.3% (both P < 0.01), while after chronic oral 
administration of high dose quercetin at 40 mg/kg, the abnormalities of the 
above indicators were significantly reversed by 69.2% and 49.5% (both P < 0.01), 
as well as significant elevation in the levels of lipid peroxide malondialdehyde 
(MDA), inflammation medium nitric oxide (NO) and inducible nitric oxide synthase 
(iNOS) by 156.4%, 255.4% and 72.7% (all P < 0.01), while after chronic oral 
administration of high dose quercetin at 40 mg/kg, the abnormalities of the 
above indicators were significantly reversed by 45.9%, 26.8% and 55.2% (all 
P < 0.01). The medium dose of quercetin (20 mg/kg) only reversed some of the 
above indicators, while the low dose of quercetin (10 mg/kg) had no reversal 
effect on the above indicators. Collectively, the present study confirmed for 
the first time that quercetin weakened CUMS-induced depression in vivo, and its 
mechanism was at least partially attributable to the upregulation of hippocampal 
Nrf2 and the inhibition of iNOS, thereby correcting the central inflammatory 
response, and the imbalance between oxidation and antioxidant.

Copyright © 2021 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.brainres.2021.147661
PMID: 34529966 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


187. Psychopharmacology (Berl). 2021 Dec;238(12):3477-3497. doi: 
10.1007/s00213-021-05966-w. Epub 2021 Sep 7.

Nicotine preference and affective behavior of Cd81 knockout mice.

Murphy RL(#)(1)(2), Locklear LL(#)(1)(3), Niaz MH(1), Walton RL(1)(4), Hudson 
AD(1)(5), Fryxell KJ(6).

Author information:
(1)School of Systems Biology, and the Interdisciplinary Program in 
Neurosciences, George Mason University, Mail Stop 1J1, Institute of Advanced 
Biomedical Research Building, 10920 George Mason Circle, Manassas, VA, 20110, 
USA.
(2)Department of Physiology and Biophysics, University of Washington, Seattle, 
WA, USA.
(3)Thomas Jefferson High School for Science and Technology, Alexandria, VA, USA.
(4)Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory, Livermore, CA, USA.
(5)Department of Reproductive Medicine, University of California at San Diego, 
La Jolla, CA, USA.
(6)School of Systems Biology, and the Interdisciplinary Program in 
Neurosciences, George Mason University, Mail Stop 1J1, Institute of Advanced 
Biomedical Research Building, 10920 George Mason Circle, Manassas, VA, 20110, 
USA. kfryxell@gmu.edu.
(#)Contributed equally

RATIONALE: Cd81 -/- (knockout) mice have previously been reported to have 
reduced cocaine preference and increased striatal dopamine content and dopamine 
turnover, but normal learning and memory in the Morris water maze. The effects 
of Cd81 on other behaviors and drugs of abuse have not been investigated.
OBJECTIVES AND METHODS: We measured the effects of Cd81 -/- in a modified 
two-bottle choice test for nicotine, as well as in somatic signs of nicotine 
withdrawal, four tests of affective behavior, and tyrosine hydroxylase gene 
expression assays.
RESULTS: We found that Cd81 loss-of-function significantly increased voluntary 
nicotine consumption and somatic signs of nicotine withdrawal. Nicotine 
consumption of Cd81 -/- female mice increased for 3 weeks and then remained 
relatively stable for the next 5 weeks, suggesting that their nicotine 
consumption continued to be limited by aversion to higher nicotine doses. Cd81 
-/- also produced a dramatic and significant increase in struggling in the 
forced swim test and a significant increase in the time spent in the light 
chamber of the light/dark box. The elevated plus maze and the tail suspension 
test did not show a main effect of genotype. Therefore, we conclude that Cd81 
did not have an overall effect on anxiety- or depression-like behavior. Tyrosine 
hydroxylase mRNA levels were unchanged.
CONCLUSIONS: Cd81 knockouts have a strongly increased nicotine preference, plus 
a proactive response to specific stressful situations. Together with reports of 
increased striatal dopamine content and anecdotal reports of increased 
aggressiveness, these provide intriguing parallels to some aspects of 
post-traumatic stress disorder.

© 2021. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer-Verlag GmbH Germany, 
part of Springer Nature.

DOI: 10.1007/s00213-021-05966-w
PMID: 34491405 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


188. Exp Brain Res. 2021 Nov;239(11):3359-3370. doi: 10.1007/s00221-021-06203-8.
Epub  2021 Sep 4.

MiR-129-5p prevents depressive-like behaviors by targeting MAPK1 to suppress 
inflammation.

Chang J(1), Zhang Y(2), Shen N(3), Zhou J(1), Zhang H(1).

Author information:
(1)The Third Department of Psychiatry, Huai'an No. 3 People's Hospital, 272 
Huaihai West Road, Huaian, Jiangsu, China.
(2)The Third Department of Psychiatry, Huai'an No. 3 People's Hospital, 272 
Huaihai West Road, Huaian, Jiangsu, China. zhangyanhongvip@163.com.
(3)The Third Department of Psychiatry, Huai'an No. 3 People's Hospital, 272 
Huaihai West Road, Huaian, Jiangsu, China. shennianhong@hotmail.com.

Depression is a complex etiological disease with limited effective treatments. 
Previous studies have indicated the involvement of miRNAs in the pathophysiology 
of mood disorders. In this study, we focused on the role and mechanisms of 
miR-129-5p in depression by successfully constructing mice models of 
depressive-like behavior via chronic unpredictable mild stress (CUMS) exposure. 
Herein, miR-129-5p expression was decreased in the hippocampus of CUMS mice 
model. Upregulation of miR-129-5p reduced depressive-like behaviors of CUMS 
mice, as revealed in sucrose preference test, novelty suppressed feeding test, 
forced swim test, tail suspension test, social interaction test. MiR-129-5p 
upregulation decreased the concentrations and protein levels of proinflammatory 
cytokines (IL-6, IL-1β and TNF-α), indicating the inhibitory role of miR-129-5p 
in inflammation. Furthermore, miR-129-5p was identified to target MAPK1. MAPK1 
was negatively regulated by miR-129-5p, and silencing of MAPK1 attenuated 
depressive-like behaviors in CUMS mice. Moreover, MAPK1 downregulation decreased 
inflammation in the hippocampus of CUMS mice. Upregulation of MAPK1 reversed the 
suppressive effects of miR-129-5p upregulation on depressive-like behaviors and 
inflammation in CUMS mice. In conclusion, the current study identified that 
miR-129-5p reduces depressive-like behaviors and suppresses inflammation by 
targeting MAPK1 in CUMS mice, offering a novel molecular interpretation for 
depression prevention.

© 2021. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer-Verlag GmbH Germany, 
part of Springer Nature.

DOI: 10.1007/s00221-021-06203-8
PMID: 34482419 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


189. Curr Protoc. 2021 Aug;1(8):e208. doi: 10.1002/cpz1.208.

Models of Depression: Unpredictable Chronic Mild Stress in Mice.

Nollet M(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Life Sciences, Imperial College London, London, United Kingdom.
(2)UK Dementia Research Institute at Imperial College London, London, United 
Kingdom.

Major depression is a complex psychiatric disorder characterized by affective, 
cognitive, and physiological impairments that lead to maladaptive behavior. The 
high lifetime prevalence of this disabling condition, coupled with limitations 
of existing medications, make necessary the development of improved 
therapeutics. This requires animal models that allow investigation of key 
biological correlates of the disorder. Described in this article is the 
unpredictable chronic mild stress mouse model that can be used to screen for 
antidepressant drug candidates. Originally designed for rats, this model has 
been adapted for mice to capitalize on the advantages of this species as an 
experimental model, including inter-strain variability, which permits an 
exploration of the contribution of genetic background; the ability to create 
transgenic animals; and lower cost. Thus, because it combines genetic features 
and socio-environmental chronic stressful events, the unpredictable chronic mild 
stress model in mice is a relevant and valuable paradigm to gain insight into 
the etiological and developmental components of major depression, as well as to 
identify novel treatments for this condition. © 2021 The Authors. Current 
Protocols published by Wiley Periodicals LLC. Basic Protocol 1: Unpredictable 
Chronic Mild Stress (UCMS) Test in Mice Basic Protocol 2: Assessment Of 
Self-Directed Activity And Anhedonia in Mice.

© 2021 The Authors. Current Protocols published by Wiley Periodicals LLC.

DOI: 10.1002/cpz1.208
PMID: 34406704 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


190. Neurochem Res. 2021 Dec;46(12):3135-3148. doi: 10.1007/s11064-021-03396-w.
Epub  2021 Aug 16.

Xanthohumol Attenuates Lipopolysaccharide-Induced Depressive Like Behavior in 
Mice: Involvement of NF-κB/Nrf2 Signaling Pathways.

Rahman SU(1)(2), Ali T(1), Hao Q(1), He K(1), Li W(1), Ullah N(1)(3), Zhang 
Z(4), Jiang Y(5), Li S(6)(7).

Author information:
(1)State Key Laboratory of Oncogenomics, School of Chemical Biology and 
Biotechnology, Peking University Shenzhen Graduate School, 518055, Shenzhen, 
People's Republic of China.
(2)Department of Pharmacy, Shaheed Benazir Bhutto University, Sheringal, Dir, 
18000, KP, Pakistan.
(3)Institute of Basic Medical Sciences, Khyber Medical University, Peshawar, KP, 
Pakistan.
(4)Institute of New Drug Research and Guangzhou Key Laboratory of Innovative 
Chemical Drug Research in Cardio-Cerebrovascular Diseases, Jinan University 
College of Pharmacy, 510632, Guangzhou, People's Republic of China.
(5)Cancer Centre, The Second Hospital of Shandong University, Jinan, People's 
Republic of China. jiangyuhua@sdu.edu.cn.
(6)State Key Laboratory of Oncogenomics, School of Chemical Biology and 
Biotechnology, Peking University Shenzhen Graduate School, 518055, Shenzhen, 
People's Republic of China. lisp@pku.edu.cn.
(7)Campbell Research Institute, Centre for Addiction and Mental Health, Toronto, 
ON, Canada. lisp@pku.edu.cn.

Erratum in
    Neurochem Res. 2023 Oct;48(10):3249-3250.

Depression is the most common psychiatric disorder associated with brain and 
immune system abnormalities. In recent years, xanthohumol (Xn) a bioactive 
prenylated flavonoid has received ample attention for its polypharmacological 
effects, therefore, here we aimed to explore the protective effects of Xn 
against the LPS-induced depressive-like symptoms mediated by inflammation and 
oxidative stress. We tested the effect of Xn against LPS-induced behavioural 
changes in mice by means of forced swimming test (FST), tail suspention test 
(TST), sucrose preference test (SPT) and open field test (OPT). Examined the 
neuroinflammation and oxido-nitrosative stress (O&NS) markers and analyze Nrf2 
and NF-κB signalling pathways in the hippocampus. Our results indicated that 
peripheral repeated administration of lipopolysaccharides (LPS) (1 mg/kg, intra 
peritoneally) induced depressive-like behavior, neuroinflammation and O&NS in 
mice. Pretreatment with Xn (10 and 20 mg/kg, intra gastrically) reverse the 
behavioural impairments prophylactically as obvious in the FST and TST without 
effecting locomotion, however only 20 mg dose improve anhedonic behavior as 
observed in SPT. Similarly, Xn pretreatment in dose-dependent manner prevented 
the LPS induced neuro-inflammation and O&NS. Immunofluorescence analysis showed 
that Xn reduced activated gliosis via attenuation of Iba-1 and GFAP in 
hippocampus. In addition, Xn considerably reduced the expression of 
phospho-NF-κB and cleaved caspase-3 while enhanced Nrf2 and HO-1 expression in 
the hippocampus. To the best of our knowledge, this is the first study to 
examine the underlying beneficial prophylactic effects of the Xn in 
neuroinflammation and O&NS mediating depressive-like behaviors.

© 2021. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Science+Business 
Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.

DOI: 10.1007/s11064-021-03396-w
PMID: 34398408 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


191. J Basic Clin Physiol Pharmacol. 2021 Aug 13;33(6):789-801. doi: 
10.1515/jbcpp-2021-0056. eCollection 2022 Nov 1.

Behavioral alterations, brain oxidative stress, and elevated levels of 
corticosterone associated with a pressure injury model in male mice.

Aquino GA(1), Sousa CNS(1), Medeiros IS(1), Almeida JC(1), Cysne Filho FMS(1), 
Santos Júnior MA(1), Vasconcelos SMM(1).

Author information:
(1)Laboratório de Neuropsicofarmacologia, Núcleo de Pesquisa e Desenvolvimento 
de Medicamentos, Faculdade de Medicina, Universidade Federal do Ceará, 
Fortaleza, CE, Brazil.

OBJECTIVES: Sustained stress can cause physiological disruption in crucial 
systems like the endocrine, autonomic, and central nervous system. In general, 
skin damages are physical stress present in hospitalized patients. Also, these 
pressure injuries lead to pathophysiological mechanisms involved in the 
neurobiology of mood disorders. Here, we aimed to investigate the behavioral 
alterations, oxidative stress, and corticosterone levels in the brain areas of 
mice submitted to the model of pressure injury (PI).
METHODS: The male mice behaviors were assessed in the open field test (OFT), 
elevated plus maze test (EPM), tail suspension test (TST), and sucrose 
preference test (SPT). Then, we isolated the prefrontal cortex (PFC), 
hippocampus (HP), and striatum (ST) by brain dissection. The nonprotein 
sulfhydryl groups (NP-SH) and malondialdehyde (MDA) were measured in the brain, 
and also the plasma corticosterone levels were verified.
RESULTS: PI model decreased the locomotor activity of animals (p<0.05). 
Considering the EPM test, the PI group showed a decrease in the open arm 
activity (p<0.01), and an increase in the closed arm activity (p<0.05). PI group 
showed an increment in the immobility time (p<0.001), and reduced sucrose 
consumption (p<0.0001) compared to the control groups. Regarding the 
oxidative/nitrosative profile, all brain areas from the PI group exhibited a 
reduction in the NP-SH levels (p<0.0001-p<0.01), and an increase in the MDA 
level (p<0.001-p<0.01). Moreover, the PI male mice presented increased levels of 
plasma corticosterone (p<0.05).
CONCLUSIONS: Our findings suggest that the PI model induces depressive and 
anxiety-like behaviors. Furthermore, it induces pathophysiological mechanisms 
like the neurobiology of depression.

© 2021 Walter de Gruyter GmbH, Berlin/Boston.

DOI: 10.1515/jbcpp-2021-0056
PMID: 34390639 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


192. Biomed Res Int. 2021 Jul 29;2021:6681397. doi: 10.1155/2021/6681397.
eCollection  2021.

Prolonged Maternal Separation Induces the Depression-Like Behavior 
Susceptibility to Chronic Unpredictable Mild Stress Exposure in Mice.

Bian Y(1)(2)(3), Ma Y(1), Ma Q(4), Yang L(5)(6), Zhu Q(7), Li W(1)(2)(6), Meng 
L(8).

Author information:
(1)College of Acupuncture and Massage, College of Regimen and Rehabilitation, 
Nanjing University of Chinese Medicine, Nanjing 210023, China.
(2)Jiangsu Provincial Engineering Research Center of TCM External Medication 
Development and Application, Nanjing University of Chinese Medicine, Nanjing 
210023, China.
(3)TCM Nursing Intervention Laboratory of Chronic Diseases, Nanjing University 
of Chinese Medicine, Nanjing 210023, China.
(4)Department of Nursing, Suzhou TCM Hospital Affiliated to Nanjing University 
of Chinese Medicine, Suzhou 215009, China.
(5)School of First Clinical Medicine, Nanjing University of Chinese Medicine, 
Nanjing 210023, China.
(6)Jingwen Library, Nanjing University of Chinese Medicine, Nanjing 210023, 
China.
(7)School of Medicine, Yangzhou Polytechnic College, Yangzhou 225009, China.
(8)Department of Nephrology, Yangzhou Hospital Affiliated to Nanjing University 
of Chinese Medicine, Yangzhou 225002, China.

Early life stress is an important determinant for developing depression later in 
life. It is reported that maternal separation (MS) could trigger stress 
sensitivity in adulthood when exposed to stress again. However, it could also 
result in resilience to stress-induced depression. The conclusions are 
contradictory. To address this issue, C57BL/6N newborn pups were exposed to 
either daily short MS (MS for 15 min per day; MS15) or prolonged MS (MS for 
180 min per day; MS180) from the first day postpartum (PD1) to PD21. Adult mice 
were then subjected to chronic unpredictable mild stress (CUMS) exposure from 
PD64 to PD105. The behavior tests such as the forced swimming test (FST), tail 
suspension test (TST), and open-field test were performed once a week during 
this time. Besides, the hippocampal neurosteroids, serum stress hormones, and 
hippocampal monoamine neurotransmitters were measured at PD106. We found that 
mice in the MS180 group displayed the reduced struggling time and the increased 
latency to immobility in both FST and TST. However, there was no significant 
difference in the MS15 group. The levels of hippocampal neurosteroids 
(progesterone and allopregnanolone) were decreased, and the serum levels of 
corticosterone, corticotropin-releasing hormone, and adrenocorticotropic hormone 
were overexpressed in the MS180 group. Besides, the expressions of monoamine 
neurotransmitters such as 5-hydroxytryptamine and 5-hydroxy indole acetic acid 
significantly decreased in the MS180 group, but not in the MS15 group. All 
findings revealed that prolonged MS, rather than short MS, could increase the 
susceptibility to depression-like behavior when reexposed to stress in 
adulthood. However, future studies are warranted to identify the underlying 
neuromolecular mechanism of the MS experience on the susceptibility to adult 
stress reexposure.

Copyright © 2021 Yaoyao Bian et al.

DOI: 10.1155/2021/6681397
PMCID: PMC8342142
PMID: 34368355 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors have no conflicts of interest to 
disclose.


193. Pharmaceuticals (Basel). 2021 Jul 9;14(7):659. doi: 10.3390/ph14070659.

Merging the Multi-Target Effects of Kleeb Bua Daeng, a Thai Traditional Herbal 
Formula in Unpredictable Chronic Mild Stress-Induced Depression.

Maneenet J(1), Monthakantirat O(2), Daodee S(2), Boonyarat C(2), Chotritthirong 
Y(1), Kwankhao P(3), Pitiporn S(3), Awale S(4), Chulikhit Y(2).

Author information:
(1)Graduate School of Pharmaceutical Science, Khon Kaen University, Khon Kaen 
40002, Thailand.
(2)Division of Pharmaceutical Chemistry, Faculty of Pharmaceutical Sciences, 
Khon Kaen University, Khon Kaen 40002, Thailand.
(3)Department of Pharmacy, Chao Phya Abhaibhubejhr Hospital, Ministry of Public 
Health, Prachinburi 25000, Thailand.
(4)Natural Drug Discovery Laboratory, Institute of Natural Medicine, University 
of Toyama, 2630 Sugitani, Toyama 930-0194, Japan.

Major depressive disorder (MDD) is a common and debilitating psychiatric disease 
characterized by persistent low mood, lack of energy, hypoactivity, anhedonia, 
decreased libido, and impaired cognitive and social functions. However, the 
multifactorial etiology of MDD remains largely unknown due the complex 
interaction between genetics and environment involved. Kleeb Bua Daeng (KBD) is 
a Thai traditional herbal formula that has been used to promote brain health. It 
consists of a 1:1:1 ratio of the aerial part of Centella asiatica, Piper nigrum 
fruit, and the petals of Nelumbo nucifera. According to the pharmacological 
activities of the individual medicinal plants, KBD has good potential as a 
treatment for MDD. The present study investigated the antidepressant activity of 
KBD in an unpredictable chronic mild stress (UCMS) mouse model. Daily 
administration of KBD to UCMS mice ameliorated both anhedonia, by increasing 2% 
sucrose intake, and hopeless behavior, by reducing immobility times in the 
forced swimming test (FST) and tail suspension test (TST) without any effect on 
locomotor activity. The mechanism of KBD activity was multi-modal. KBD promoted 
neurogenesis by upregulation of brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) and 
cyclic AMP-responsive element binding (CREB) mRNA expression in the frontal 
cortex and hippocampus. Daily treatment with KBD significantly reversed 
UCMS-induced HPA axis dysregulation by upregulating the glucocorticoid receptor 
(GR) while downregulating serum- and glucocorticoid-inducible kinase 1 (SGK1) 
and FK506 binding protein 5 (FKBP5) mRNA expression. KBD treatment also 
normalized proinflammatory cytokine expression including tumor necrosis 
factor-alpha (TNF-α), and interleukin (IL)-1β and IL-6. KBD and its component 
extracts also exhibited an inhibitory effect in vitro on monoamine oxidase (MAO) 
A and B. The multiple antidepressant actions of KBD emphasize its potential as 
an effective, novel treatment for MDD.

DOI: 10.3390/ph14070659
PMCID: PMC8308724
PMID: 34358084

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


194. Behav Brain Res. 2021 Sep 24;414:113486. doi: 10.1016/j.bbr.2021.113486.
Epub  2021 Jul 22.

Influence of aging on chronic unpredictable mild stress-induced depression-like 
behavior in male C57BL/6J mice.

Wang S(1), Huang G(2), Yan J(3), Li C(4), Feng J(3), Chen Q(3), Zheng X(3), Li 
H(1), Li J(5), Wang L(1), Li H(6).

Author information:
(1)School of Life Sciences and Biopharmaceuticals, Guangdong Pharmaceutical 
University, Guangzhou, 510006, China.
(2)The First Affiliated Hospital, Sun Yat-sen University, Guangzhou, 510080, 
China.
(3)School of Pharmacy, Guangdong Pharmaceutical University, Guangzhou, 510006, 
China.
(4)School of Clinical Medicine, Guangdong Pharmaceutical University, Guangzhou, 
510006, China.
(5)Guangdong Province Key Laboratory for Biotechnology Drug Candidates, 
Guangdong Pharmaceutical University, Guangzhou, 510006, China.
(6)Department of Applied Psychology, School of Humanities and Communication, 
Guangdong University of Finance & Economics, Guangzhou, 510320, China. 
Electronic address: 1255602820@qq.com.

Depression is a common psychiatric disorder that can occur throughout an 
individual's lifespan. Chronic unpredictable mild stress (CUMS) protocol is 
currently the most commonly used to develop an animal model of depression. Due 
to the variable duration and procedure of CUMS, it is difficult to reproduce and 
explore the mechanism of CUMS-induced depression effectively. In the present 
study, the CUMS-induced behavioral phenotypes were assessed in male C57BL/6J 
mice at the age of 9-18 weeks. The mice stressed for 3-8 weeks exhibited lower 
body weight as well as longer immobility time of forced swim and tail suspension 
test compared to control mice. Moreover, lessening and impairment of hippocampal 
neurons was found in stressed mice at the age of 18 weeks, which was correlated 
with increased relative mRNA expression levels of inflammatory cytokines BDNF, 
Htr1a, and IL-6 in the hippocampus. Nevertheless, no difference between stressed 
and control mice was observed neither in the sucrose preference nor in the open 
field test (except for vertical activity in OFT) at the age of 18 weeks. These 
findings reveal that 3-8 weeks of chronic stress could induce depression-like 
alterations in male C57BL/6J mice and the behavioral adaptation of aged mice 
might fail to the availability of the depression model.

Copyright © 2021 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.bbr.2021.113486
PMID: 34302872 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


195. Neuropsychopharmacol Rep. 2021 Sep;41(3):426-429. doi: 10.1002/npr2.12198.
Epub  2021 Jul 21.

Resolvin D2 attenuates chronic pain-induced depression-like behavior in mice.

Suzuki H(1), Hitora-Imamura N(1), Deyama S(2), Minami M(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmacology, Graduate School of Pharmaceutical Sciences, 
Hokkaido University, Sapporo, Japan.
(2)Laboratory of Molecular Pharmacology, Institute of Medical, Pharmaceutical 
and Health Sciences, Kanazawa University, Kanazawa, Japan.

AIM: We previously demonstrated that intracerebroventricular injection of 
resolvin D2 (RvD2), a bioactive lipid mediator derived from docosahexaenoic 
acid, ameliorated depression-like behavior in lipopolysaccharide-induced and 
chronic mild stress-induced mouse models of depression. In the present study, we 
examined the antidepressant effect of RvD2 on chronic pain-induced 
depression-like behavior.
METHODS: To prepare the neuropathic pain model, mice were subjected to surgery 
for unilateral spared nerve injury. Two weeks after surgery, the antidepressant 
effect of RvD2 was examined using the tail suspension test.
RESULTS: Chronic pain significantly increased immobility time, and this 
depression-like behavior was attenuated by intracerebroventricular injection of 
RvD2 (10 ng). No effect of RvD2 on the locomotor activity was observed.
CONCLUSION: RvD2 produces an antidepressant effect in a murine model of chronic 
pain-induced depression and may be a promising lead for the development of novel 
antidepressants.

© 2021 The Authors. Neuropsychopharmacology Reports published by John Wiley & 
Sons Australia, Ltd on behalf of The Japanese Society of 
Neuropsychopharmacology.

DOI: 10.1002/npr2.12198
PMCID: PMC8411310
PMID: 34291613 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interests.


196. Behav Brain Res. 2021 Sep 24;414:113463. doi: 10.1016/j.bbr.2021.113463.
Epub  2021 Jul 16.

Baicalin ameliorates chronic unpredictable mild stress-induced depression 
through the BDNF/ERK/CREB signaling pathway.

Jia Z(1), Yang J(1), Cao Z(1), Zhao J(2), Zhang J(2), Lu Y(2), Chu L(1), Zhang 
S(3), Chen Y(4), Pei L(5).

Author information:
(1)Hebei University of Chinese Medicine, Shijiazhuang, Hebei, China.
(2)Hebei Key Laboratory of Turbidity, Hebei Academy of Chinese Medicine 
Sciences, Shijiazhuang, Hebei, 050011, China.
(3)The Second Hospital of Hebei Medical University, Shijiazhuang, Hebei, China. 
Electronic address: 13653115066@163.com.
(4)The Second Hospital of Hebei Medical University, Shijiazhuang, Hebei, China. 
Electronic address: ychen74@163.com.
(5)Hebei Key Laboratory of Turbidity, Hebei Academy of Chinese Medicine 
Sciences, Shijiazhuang, Hebei, 050011, China. Electronic address: 
peilin13831190309@126.com.

Brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) can activate the extracellular 
regulated protein kinase (ERK)/cAMP response element binding protein (CREB) 
cascade revealing an important role in antidepressant effects. Here, we studied 
the neuroprotective effect of baicalin (BA) in mice with chronic unpredictable 
mild stress (CUMS)-induced via a BDNF/ERK/CREB signaling pathway. Depression was 
induced via six weeks of CUMS in male ICR mice, and drug therapy was given 
simultaneously for the last three weeks. Cognitive dysfunctions were then 
evaluated via sucrose preference test (SPT), open field test (OFT), Morris water 
maze test (MWM), tail suspension test (TST), and novelty suppressed feeding test 
(NSF). Western blot and real-time PCR were then used to detect the relative 
expression of ERK, CREB, p-ERK, and p-CREB. Integrated optical density (IOD) 
tests of p-ERK and p-CREB were then evaluated via immunofluorescence. The 
behavior results showed that the cognitive dysfunctions increased in the CUMS 
group versus the control (CON) group (p < 0.01). There were decreases in 
fluoxetine (FLU) and BA groups (p < 0.05, p < 0.01). The protein ratios of 
p-ERK/ERK, p-CREB/CREB and ERK mRNA, and CREB mRNA expression decreased in the 
CUMS group (p < 0.01) and markedly increased in the FLU and BA groups (p < 0.05, 
p < 0.01). The IOD value of the p-ERK and p-CREB in the CUMS group was decreased 
versus the CON group (p < 0.01), and these changes were improved via BA and FLU 
treatment (p < 0.05, p < 0.01). This study indicated that BA can improve 
cognitive functions and has antidepressant effects in mice, which may be 
associated with activation of the BDNF/ERK/CREB signaling pathway in the 
hippocampus.

Copyright © 2021 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.bbr.2021.113463
PMID: 34280458 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


197. Environ Sci Pollut Res Int. 2021 Dec;28(47):67394-67403. doi: 
10.1007/s11356-021-15402-3. Epub 2021 Jul 12.

A subchronic low-dose exposure of a glyphosate-based herbicide induces 
depressive and anxious-like behavior in mice: quercetin therapeutic approach.

Bicca DF(1), Spiazzi CC(1), Ramalho JB(1), Soares MB(1), Cibin FWS(2).

Author information:
(1)Laboratório de Biotecnologia da Reprodução (Biotech), Campus Uruguaiana, 
Universidade Federal do Pampa (UNIPAMPA), Uruguaiana, RS, CEP 97500-970, Brazil.
(2)Laboratório de Biotecnologia da Reprodução (Biotech), Campus Uruguaiana, 
Universidade Federal do Pampa (UNIPAMPA), Uruguaiana, RS, CEP 97500-970, Brazil. 
francielliweber@yahoo.com.br.

In this study, we investigated the possible role of pesticide exposure in 
contributing to neurological diseases such as depression. Here, we evaluated 
whether a subchronic low dose of a glyphosate-based herbicide (GBH) could induce 
alterations in the central nervous system, using the flavonoid quercetin as a 
therapeutic strategy. Forty mice were divided into four treatment groups: 
control, GBH, quercetin, and GBH+Quer groups and received 50 mg/kg of GBH 
solution, 30 mg/kg of quercetin, and/or vehicles for 30 days via gavage. After 
performing behavioral tests, such as the open field (OF), elevated plus maze 
(EPM), forced swim test (FST), and sucrose preference test (SPT), the mice were 
euthanized and their hippocampal tissues were collected to measure the levels of 
oxidative stress markers such as reactive species (RS), total antioxidant 
capacity (FRAP), reduced glutathione (GSH), and acetylcholinesterase activity 
(AChE), as well as for histological evaluation. The GBH group showed anxious and 
depressive-like behavior in the EPM and FST tests, as well as increased levels 
of RS and decreased GSH levels in the hippocampus. Quercetin treatment in the 
GBH+Quer group allowed partial or total improvement in behavioral tests (EPM and 
FST) and in the levels of oxidative stress markers (RS and GSH). However, the 
quercetin group showed similar behavior to the GBH group after treatment. The 
results revealed that oral exposure to a subchronic low dose of GBH was capable 
of promoting effects on behavior and oxidative stress in the hippocampus of 
mice. In addition, despite quercetin having a neuroprotective role, caution is 
needed when considering the possible per se effects of its continuous 
supplementation.

© 2021. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer-Verlag GmbH Germany, 
part of Springer Nature.

DOI: 10.1007/s11356-021-15402-3
PMID: 34254248 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


198. PeerJ. 2021 Jul 2;9:e11720. doi: 10.7717/peerj.11720. eCollection 2021.

CGRP overexpression does not alter depression-like behavior in mice.

Hashikawa-Hobara N(1), Otsuka A(1), Okujima C(1), Hashikawa N(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Life Science, Okayama University of Science, Okayama, Japan.

BACKGROUND: The calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP) is a neuropeptide that is 
released from capsaicin-sensitive nerves as a potent vasodilator involved in 
nociceptive transmission. While CGRP has been rigorously studied for its role in 
migraines owing to its vasodilation and inflammation activities, the effects of 
CGRP overexpression on depressive-like behaviors remain insufficiently 
understood.
METHODS: In the present study, we performed a battery of behavioral tests, 
including the social interaction test, open field test, and sucrose preference 
test, to evaluate social defeat stress using male C57BL6J or CGRP overexpression 
in transgenic (Tg) mice (CGRP Tg). We performed mRNA and protein analyses on the 
brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF), phosphorylated Akt, mTOR, and p70S6K 
in the hippocampi.
RESULTS: CGRP Tg mice showed increased levels of Bdnf mRNAs, low locomotor 
activity, and no deficits in social interaction, which indicate that CGRP Tg 
mice exhibit stress resistance and not depression. However, the open field test 
significantly decreased after 15-day social defeat stress exposure. We also 
evaluated depressive-like behavior using the sucrose preference and social 
interaction tests. Our data indicate that defeated CGRP Tg mice exhibited a 
depressive-like phenotype, which was inferred from increased social avoidance 
and reduced sucrose preference compared with non-defeated controls. Although 
stress exposure did not change the BDNF levels in CGRP Tg mice, it significantly 
decreased the expression levels of p-Akt, p-mTOR and p-p70S6K in the mice 
hippocampi. We conclude that CGRP-overexpressing Tg mice have normal sensitivity 
to stress and down-regulated hippocampal Akt/mTOR/p70S6K pathways.

© 2021 Hashikawa-Hobara et al.

DOI: 10.7717/peerj.11720
PMCID: PMC8256807
PMID: 34249519

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that they have no competing 
interests.


199. Mol Neurobiol. 2021 Oct;58(10):5078-5089. doi: 10.1007/s12035-021-02483-x.
Epub  2021 Jul 10.

Effect of m-Trifluoromethyl-diphenyl diselenide on the Pain-Depression Dyad 
Induced by Reserpine: Insights on Oxidative Stress, Apoptotic, and 
Glucocorticoid Receptor Modulation.

Schossler Garcia C(1), Garcia PR(1), da Silva Espíndola CN(1), Nunes GD(1), 
Jardim NS(2), Müller SG(2), Bortolatto CF(3), Brüning CA(4).

Author information:
(1)Laboratory of Biochemistry and Molecular Neuropharmacology (LABIONEM), 
Postgraduate Program in Biochemistry and Bioprospecting (PPGBBio), Center for 
Chemical, Pharmaceutical and Food Sciences (CCQFA), Federal University of 
Pelotas (UFPel), Pelotas, RS, 96010-900, Brazil.
(2)Laboratory of Synthesis, Reactivity and Pharmacological and Toxicological 
Evaluation of Organochalcogens, Federal University of Santa Maria (UFSM), Santa 
Maria, RS, 97105-900, Brazil.
(3)Laboratory of Biochemistry and Molecular Neuropharmacology (LABIONEM), 
Postgraduate Program in Biochemistry and Bioprospecting (PPGBBio), Center for 
Chemical, Pharmaceutical and Food Sciences (CCQFA), Federal University of 
Pelotas (UFPel), Pelotas, RS, 96010-900, Brazil. cbortolatto@gmail.com.
(4)Laboratory of Biochemistry and Molecular Neuropharmacology (LABIONEM), 
Postgraduate Program in Biochemistry and Bioprospecting (PPGBBio), Center for 
Chemical, Pharmaceutical and Food Sciences (CCQFA), Federal University of 
Pelotas (UFPel), Pelotas, RS, 96010-900, Brazil. cabruning@yahoo.com.br.

Chronic pain and depression often coexist sharing common pathological 
mechanisms, and available analgesics and antidepressants have demonstrated 
limited clinical efficacy. Evidence has demonstrated that neuronal oxidative 
stress, apoptosis, and also glucocorticoid receptor dysregulation facilitate the 
occurrence and development of both chronic pain and depression. This study 
evaluated the effect of the organoselenium compound m-trifluoromethyl-diphenyl 
diselenide [(m-CF3-PhSe)2] in the pain-depression comorbidity induced by 
reserpine. Mice were treated with reserpine 0.5 mg/kg for 3 days 
(intraperitoneal, once a day), and in the next 2 days, they were treated with 
(m-CF3-PhSe)2 10 mg/kg (intragastric, once a day). Thirty minutes after the last 
administration of (m-CF3-PhSe)2, mice were subjected to the behavioral testing. 
(m-CF3-PhSe)2 treatment reverted the reserpine-increased thermal hyperalgesia 
and depressive-like behavior observed in the hot-plate test and forced swimming 
test, respectively. Reserpine provoked a decrease of crossings and rearings in 
the open-field test, while (m-CF3-PhSe)2 presented a tendency to normalize these 
parameters. Reserpine and/or (m-CF3-PhSe)2 treatments did not alter the 
locomotor activity of mice observed in the rota-rod test. These effects could be 
related to modulation of oxidative stress, apoptotic pathway, and glucocorticoid 
receptors, once (m-CF3-PhSe)2 normalized thiobarbituric acid reactive substances 
and 4-hydroxynonenal modified protein levels, markers of lipoperoxidation, 
poly(ADP-ribose) polymerase cleaved/total ratio, and glucocorticoid receptor 
levels increased by reserpine in the hippocampus. Considering that 
pain-depression dyad is a complex state of difficult treatment, this 
organoselenium compound could raise as an interesting alternative to treat 
pain-depression condition.

© 2021. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Science+Business 
Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.

DOI: 10.1007/s12035-021-02483-x
PMID: 34245440 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


200. J Basic Clin Physiol Pharmacol. 2021 Jun 25;32(4):335-340. doi: 
10.1515/jbcpp-2020-0437.

Resveratrol ameliorates physical and psychological stress-induced 
depressive-like behavior.

Ardianto C(1), Budiatin AS(1), Sumartha INB(1), Nurrahmi N(1), Rahmadi M(1), 
Khotib J(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Clinical Pharmacy, Faculty of Pharmacy, University of 
Airlangga, Surabaya, Indonesia.

OBJECTIVES: Depression is a mental disorder that profoundly affects all aspects 
of life, but currently, antidepressants have some problems with their 
effectiveness and side effects. Resveratrol is a compound that has the ability 
to regulate the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal axis. This study aimed to 
determine resveratrol's effect on physical and psychological stress-induced 
depressive-like behavior.
METHODS: Mice were divided into control, physical stress, psychological stress 
groups. Treatment was conducted with fluvoxamine 20 mg/kg and resveratrol 20, 
40, and 80 mg/kg for seven days. The depressive-like state was evaluated using a 
forced swim test (FST), tail suspension test (TST), and open field test (OFT).
RESULTS: Physical stress and psychological stress induction increase the 
immobility time on FST and TST. Besides, there is an increase in time in central 
on OFT, which indicates an anxiety or mental illness-like behavior. However, the 
OFT examination on sniffing, rearing, grooming, and crossing behavior did not 
show a significant difference. Resveratrol 80 mg/kg and fluvoxamine 20 mg/kg 
were significantly reduced immobility time at TST compared to the physical 
stress group. While in psychological stress, resveratrol 80 mg/kg tended to 
decrease immobility time but not significant. A significant increase in time in 
central duration was seen in the resveratrol 40 mg/kg compared to the 
psychological stress. Stress induction causes increased amygdala 
corticotrophin-releasing factor (CRF) mRNA expression. However, neither 
resveratrol nor fluvoxamine affected amygdala CRF mRNA expression.
CONCLUSIONS: Resveratrol ameliorates depressive-like behavior induced by 
physical and psychological stress.

© 2021 Walter de Gruyter GmbH, Berlin/Boston.

DOI: 10.1515/jbcpp-2020-0437
PMID: 34214312 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


201. Neurobiol Stress. 2021 Jun 20;15:100358. doi: 10.1016/j.ynstr.2021.100358. 
eCollection 2021 Nov.

Activation of 6-8-week-old new mature adult-born dentate granule cells 
contributes to anxiety-like behavior.

Wang G(1), Wang C(2), Chen H(3), Chen L(3), Li J(4).

Author information:
(1)502 Room, 28 Yunjing Road, Guangzhou, 510515, China.
(2)Department of Pharmacy, Nanfang Hospital, Southern Medical University, 
Guangzhou, 510515, China.
(3)Department of Histology and Embryology, School of Basic Medical Sciences, 
Southern Medical University, Guangzhou, 510515, China.
(4)School of Basic Medical Sciences, Southern Medical University, Guangzhou, 
510515, China.

Adult-born dentate granule cells (aDGCs) at 4-6 weeks of age are particularly 
excitable but subsequently develop the quiet properties of mature cells. Most 
existing studies have focused on the hyperactivity of 4-6-week-old aDGCs or 
neurogenesis, which confers stress resilience or buffers stress responses. 
However, the function of the quiet property of new mature aDGCs remains unclear. 
Here we used a retrovirus expressing cre recombinase in combination with an 
associated-adenovirus to specifically interfere with the activity of new mature 
aDGCs, and estimated anxiety-like behaviors by the open-field test and elevated 
plus maze test, antidepressant-like behaviors by the tail suspension test, and 
spatial memory by the Barnes maze test. We found that sustained hyperactivity of 
6-8-week-old, but not 8-10-week-old, aDGCs induced anxiety-like behaviors, and 
suppression of the activity of 6-8-week-old aDGCs disturbed spatial memory. 
Meanwhile, sustained hyperactivity of 6-8-week-old aDGCs induced activation of 
mature dentate gyrus (DG) neurons and inhibition of immature aDGCs. 
Additionally, the mice showing anxiety-like behaviors induced by chronic mild 
immobilization stress exhibited increased activity in 6-8-week-old aDGCs. 
Furthermore, the sustained hyperactivity of mature DG neurons also induced 
anxiety-like behaviors and decreased the activity of immature aDGCs. Our results 
combined show that the excitation of 6-8-week-old new mature aDGCs, which 
prohibits them from normally entering the resting state, determines anxiety-like 
behavior, while the maintenance of normal excitation ability of 6-8-week-old new 
mature aDGCs confers memory. Our results suggests that strategies aimed at 
inhibiting unusual hyperactive new mature aDGCs at a restricted time window may 
protect against stress-related psychiatric disorders, such as anxiety and 
depression.

© 2021 The Authors.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ynstr.2021.100358
PMCID: PMC8240024
PMID: 34195305

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


202. Front Pharmacol. 2021 Jun 8;12:635762. doi: 10.3389/fphar.2021.635762. 
eCollection 2021.

Salidroside Improves Chronic Stress Induced Depressive Symptoms Through 
Microglial Activation Suppression.

Fan Y(1), Bi Y(1), Chen H(1).

Author information:
(1)School of Pharmaceutical Science and Technology, Tianjin University, Tianjin, 
China.

Depression is a severe neurological disorder highly associated with chronic 
mental stress stimulation, which involves chronic inflammation and microglial 
activation in the central nervous system (CNS). Salidroside (SLDS) has been 
reported to exhibit anti-neuroinflammatory and protective properties on 
neurological diseases. However, the mechanism underlying the effect of SLDS on 
depressive symptoms has not been well elaborated. In the present study, the 
effects of SLDS on depressive behaviors and microglia activation in mice CNS 
were investigated. Behavioral tests, including Forced swimming test (FST), Open 
field test (OFT) and Morris water maze (MWM) revealed that SLDS treatment 
attenuated the depressive behaviors in stress mice. SLDS treatment significantly 
reduced the microglial immunoreactivity for both Iba-1 and CD68, characteristic 
of deleterious M1 phenotype in hippocampus of stress mice. Additionally, SLDS 
inhibited microglial activation involving the suppression of ERK1/2, P38 MAPK 
and p65 NF-κB activation and thus reduced the expression and release of 
neuroinflammatory cytokines in stress mice as well as in lipopolysaccharide 
(LPS)-induced primary microglia. Also, SLDS changed microglial morphology, 
attachment and reduced the phagocytic ability in LPS-induced primary microglia. 
The results demonstrated that SLDS treatment could improve the depressive 
symptoms caused by unpredictable chronic stress, indicating a potential 
therapeutic application of SLDS in depression treatment by interfering 
microglia-mediated neuroinflammation.

Copyright © 2021 Fan, Bi and Chen.

DOI: 10.3389/fphar.2021.635762
PMCID: PMC8217647
PMID: 34168556

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that the research was 
conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial relationships that could 
be construed as a potential conflict of interest.


203. J Affect Disord. 2021 Sep 1;292:733-745. doi: 10.1016/j.jad.2021.05.083.
Epub  2021 Jun 5.

Doxycycline at subantimicrobial dose combined with escitalopram reverses 
depressive-like behavior and neuroinflammatory hippocampal alterations in the 
lipopolysaccharide model of depression.

Mello BSF(1), Chaves Filho AJM(1), Custódio CS(1), Rodrigues PA(2), Carletti 
JV(1), Vasconcelos SMM(1), Sousa FCF(1), Sanders LLO(1), Macedo DS(3).

Author information:
(1)Neuropharmacology Laboratory, Drug Research and Development Center, 
Department of Physiology and Pharmacology, Faculty of Medicine, Federal 
University of Ceara, Fortaleza, CE, Brazil.
(2)Laboratory of Neuroscience and Behavior, Drug Research and Development 
Center, Department of Physiology and Pharmacology, Faculty of Medicine, Federal 
University of Ceara, Fortaleza, CE, Brazil.
(3)Neuropharmacology Laboratory, Drug Research and Development Center, 
Department of Physiology and Pharmacology, Faculty of Medicine, Federal 
University of Ceara, Fortaleza, CE, Brazil; National Institute for Translational 
Medicine (INCT-TM, CNPq), Ribeirão Preto, SP, Brazil. Electronic address: 
danielle.macedo@ufc.br.

Doxycycline (DOXY) is a second-generation tetracycline with anti-inflammatory 
and neuroprotective effects. A proinflammatory profile seems to predict the 
severity of depressive symptoms. In the present study, we aimed at determining 
whether the anti-inflammatory action of subantimicrobial-dose doxycycline (SDD) 
(DOXY, 10mg/kg), alone or combined with the antidepressant escitalopram (ESC), 
could revert lipopolysaccharide-induced depressive-like alterations in mice. 
Male Swiss mice received saline or lipopolysaccharide (LPS) for ten consecutive 
days. From the 6th day of LPS exposure, they were treated with DOXY 10 mg/kg, 
ESC 4 mg/kg, DOXY 10 mg/kg plus ESC 4 mg/kg (DOXY+ESC), or saline. On the 10th 
day, we assessed behavioral despair (forced swimming test), anhedonia (sucrose 
preference test), brain oxidative stress markers, and inflammatory and 
protective pathways related to depression, such as NF-kB and phospho-CREB. Our 
results showed that DOXY alone or combined with ESC reduced hippocampal Iba-1 
expression and interleukin (IL)-1β levels. Only DOXY+ESC successfully reversed 
the LPS-induced increase in NF-kBp65 expression and TNFα levels. DOXY caused a 
marked increase in the hippocampal expression of phospho-CREB and GSH 
concentrations. DOXY and DOXY+ESC showed a tendency to modulate the functional 
status of mitogen-activated kinase p42-44 (Phospho-p44/42 MAPK) and of the 
phosphorylated form of glycogen synthase kinase 3 beta (GSK3β), revealing a 
protective profile against inflammation. In conclusion, SDD, combined with ESC, 
seems to be a good strategy for reverting inflammatory changes and protecting 
against depression.

Copyright © 2021 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jad.2021.05.083
PMID: 34161892 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


204. J Affect Disord. 2021 Jul 1;290:353-363. doi: 10.1016/j.jad.2021.04.037.
Epub  2021 Apr 27.

Puerarin ameliorates depression-like behaviors of with chronic unpredictable 
mild stress mice by remodeling their gut microbiota.

Song X(1), Wang W(1), Ding S(1), Liu X(1), Wang Y(1), Ma H(2).

Author information:
(1)School of Chemical and Biological Engineering, Yichun University, Yichun 
336000, China.
(2)School of Aesthetic Medicine, Yichun University, Yichun 336000, China. 
Electronic address: 999310@jxycu.edu.cn.

BACKGROUND: Puerarin is an isoflavone derivative isolated from the traditional 
Chinese medicine Pueraria Lobelia, which has proven to relieve depression-like 
behavior. However, its underlying antidepressant mechanisms have been poorly 
characterized. Herein, we explored whether Puerarin's antidepressant effect is 
associated with changes in the gut microbiota (GM).
METHODS: The model of depression in mice featuring chronic unpredictable mild 
stress (CUMS) was eastablished, and its antidepressant effect was estimated by 
sugar water preference and forced swimming test. Genomic DNA extracted from 
fecal samples was employed to sequence the 16S rRNA gene for gut microbiota 
identification.
RESULTS: Puerarin (100 mg/kg) treatment was found to alleviate the CUMS-induced 
depression-like behaviors. Furthermore, chronic stress led to pathological 
microbial flora, which was principally marked by the increased abundance of 
pathogenic bacteria (Proteobacteria, Flexispira, Desulfovibrio) and the 
decreased abundance of beneficial bacteria (Firmicutes, Bacillales, 
Lactobacillus). Intriguingly, puerarin treatment reversed these changes.
LIMITATIONS: The specific role and anti-depression mechanism of characteristic 
gut microflora were not confirmed.
CONCLUSION: Puerarin can remedy stress-induced disruptions of normal gut 
microflora. It is suggested that the antidepressant mechanism of puerarin may 
closely interact with restoring beneficial microflora.

Copyright © 2021. Published by Elsevier B.V.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jad.2021.04.037
PMID: 34049088 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


205. FEBS Open Bio. 2021 Oct;11(10):2678-2692. doi: 10.1002/2211-5463.13204. Epub
 2021 Jun 24.

Alterations in circulating extracellular vesicles underlie social stress-induced 
behaviors in mice.

Sakamoto S(1), Mallah D(2), Medeiros DJ(2), Dohi E(1)(2), Imai T(1), Rose 
IVL(1), Matoba K(2), Zhu X(1), Kamiya A(1), Kano SI(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychiatry and Behavioral Sciences, Johns Hopkins University 
School of Medicine, Baltimore, MD, USA.
(2)Department of Psychiatry and Behavioral Neurobiology, University of Alabama 
at Birmingham School of Medicine, Birmingham, AL, USA.

Comment in
    FEBS Open Bio. 2021 Oct;11(10):2675-2677.

Chronic stress induces peripheral and intracerebral immune changes and 
inflammation, contributing to neuropathology and behavioral abnormalities 
relevant to psychiatric disorders such as depression. Although the pathological 
implication of many peripheral factors such as pro-inflammatory cytokines, 
hormones, and macrophages has been demonstrated, the roles of circulating 
extracellular vesicles (EVs) for chronic stress mechanisms remain poorly 
investigated. Here, we report that chronic social defeat stress (CSDS)-induced 
social avoidance phenotype, assessed by a previously untested three-chamber 
social approach test, can be distinguished by multiple pro-inflammatory 
cytokines and EV-associated molecular signatures in the blood. We found that the 
expression patterns of miRNAs distinguished the CSDS-susceptible mice from the 
CSDS-resilient mice. Social avoidance behavior scores were also estimated with 
good accuracy by the expression patterns of multiple EV-associated miRNAs. We 
also demonstrated that EVs enriched from the CSDS-susceptible mouse sera 
upregulated the production of pro-inflammatory cytokines in the LPS-stimulated 
microglia-like cell lines. Our results indicate the role of circulating EVs and 
associated miRNAs in CSDS susceptibility, which may be related to 
pro-inflammatory mechanisms underlying stress-induced neurobehavioral outcomes.

© 2021 The Authors. FEBS Open Bio published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd on behalf 
of Federation of European Biochemical Societies.

DOI: 10.1002/2211-5463.13204
PMCID: PMC8487053
PMID: 34043886 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


206. Psychopharmacology (Berl). 2021 Aug;238(8):2249-2260. doi: 
10.1007/s00213-021-05849-0. Epub 2021 May 10.

The selective 5-HT(1A) receptor biased agonists, F15599 and F13714, show 
antidepressant-like properties after a single administration in the mouse model 
of unpredictable chronic mild stress.

Głuch-Lutwin M(#)(1), Sałaciak K(#)(2), Gawalska A(3), Jamrozik M(3), 
Sniecikowska J(3), Newman-Tancredi A(4), Kołaczkowski M(3), Pytka K(5).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmacobiology, Faculty of Pharmacy, Jagiellonian University 
Medical College, Krakow, Poland.
(2)Department of Pharmacodynamics, Faculty of Pharmacy, Jagiellonian University 
Medical College, Krakow, Poland.
(3)Department of Medicinal Chemistry, Faculty of Pharmacy, Jagiellonian 
University Medical College, Krakow, Poland.
(4)Neurolixis SAS, Castres, France.
(5)Department of Pharmacodynamics, Faculty of Pharmacy, Jagiellonian University 
Medical College, Krakow, Poland. karolina.pytka@uj.edu.pl.
(#)Contributed equally

RATIONALE: The prevalence of depression is ever-increasing throughout the 
population. However, available treatments are ineffective in around one-third of 
patients and there is a need for more effective and safer drugs.
OBJECTIVES: The antidepressant-like and procognitive effects of the "biased 
agonists" F15599 (also known as NLX-101) which preferentially targets 
postsynaptic 5-HT1A receptors and F13714, which targets 5-HT1A autoreceptors, 
were investigated in mice.
METHODS: Antidepressant-like properties of the compounds and their effect on 
cognitive functions were assessed using the forced swim test (FST) and the novel 
object recognition (NOR), respectively. Next, we induced a depressive-like state 
by an unpredictable chronic mild stress (UCMS) procedure to test the compounds' 
activity in the depression model, followed by measures of sucrose preference, 
FST, and locomotor activity. Levels of phosphorylated cyclic AMP response 
element-binding protein (p-CREB) and phosphorylated extracellular 
signal-regulated kinase (p-ERK1/2) were also determined.
RESULTS: F15599 reduced immobility time in the FST over a wider dose-range (2 to 
16 mg/kg po) than F13714 (2 and 4 mg/kg po), suggesting accentuated 
antidepressant-like properties in mice. F15599 did not disrupt long-term memory 
consolidation in the NOR at any dose tested, while F13714 impaired memory 
formation, notably at higher doses (4-16 mg/kg). In UCMS mice, a single 
administration of F15599 and F13714 was sufficient to robustly normalize 
depressive-like behavior in the FST but did not rescue disrupted sucrose 
preference. Both F15599 and F13714 rescued cortical and hippocampal deficits in 
p-ERK1/2 levels of UCMS mice but did not influence the p-CREB levels.
CONCLUSIONS: Our studies showed that 5-HT1A receptor biased agonists such as 
F13714 and especially F15599, due to its less pronounced side effects, might 
have potential as fast-acting antidepressants.

© 2021. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1007/s00213-021-05849-0
PMCID: PMC8292235
PMID: 33973045 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Adrian Newman-Tancredi is employee and 
shareholder of Neurolixis.


207. Neurobiol Stress. 2021 Apr 15;14:100324. doi: 10.1016/j.ynstr.2021.100324. 
eCollection 2021 May.

Resilience to anhedonia-passive coping induced by early life experience is 
linked to a long-lasting reduction of I(h) current in VTA dopaminergic neurons.

D'Addario SL(1)(2)(3), Di Segni M(2), Ledonne A(2), Piscitelli R(2)(4), Babicola 
L(1)(2), Martini A(2), Spoleti E(5), Mancini C(6), Ielpo D(1)(2)(3), D'Amato 
FR(7), Andolina D(1)(2), Ragozzino D(2)(5), Mercuri NB(2)(8), Cifani C(6), Renzi 
M(5), Guatteo E(2)(4), Ventura R(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Dept. of Psychology and Center "Daniel Bovet", Sapienza University, Rome, 
Italy.
(2)IRCCS Fondazione Santa Lucia, Roma, Italy.
(3)Behavioral Neuroscience PhD Programme, Sapienza University, Piazzale Aldo 
Moro, 5 00184, Rome, Italy.
(4)Dept. of Motor Science and Wellness, 'Parthenope' University, Via Medina 40, 
80133 Naples, Italy.
(5)Department of Physiology and Pharmacology, Sapienza University, Rome, 00185, 
Italy.
(6)University of Camerino School of Pharmaceutical Sciences and Health Products, 
Camerino, Italy.
(7)Biochemistry and Cell Biology Institute, National Research Council, Via E 
Ramarini 32, 00015, Monterotondo Scalo, Roma, Italy.
(8)Dept. of Systems Medicine, Tor Vergata University, 00133, Rome, Italy.

Exposure to aversive events during sensitive developmental periods can affect 
the preferential coping strategy adopted by individuals later in life, leading 
to either stress-related psychiatric disorders, including depression, or to 
well-adaptation to future adversity and sources of stress, a behavior phenotype 
termed "resilience". We have previously shown that interfering with the 
development of mother-pups bond with the Repeated Cross Fostering (RCF) stress 
protocol can induce resilience to depression-like phenotype in adult C57BL/6J 
female mice. Here, we used patch-clamp recording in midbrain slice combined with 
both in vivo and ex vivo pharmacology to test our hypothesis of a link between 
electrophysiological modifications of dopaminergic neurons in the intermediate 
Ventral Tegmental Area (VTA) of RCF animals and behavioral resilience. We found 
reduced hyperpolarization-activated (Ih) cation current amplitude and evoked 
firing in VTA dopaminergic neurons from both young and adult RCF female mice. In 
vivo, VTA-specific pharmacological manipulation of the Ih current reverted the 
pro-resilient phenotype in adult early-stressed mice or mimicked behavioral 
resilience in adult control animals. This is the first evidence showing how 
pro-resilience behavior induced by early events is linked to a long-lasting 
reduction of Ih current and excitability in VTA dopaminergic neurons.

© 2021 The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1016/j.ynstr.2021.100324
PMCID: PMC8079665
PMID: 33937445

Conflict of interest statement: None.


208. Front Nutr. 2021 Apr 15;8:661455. doi: 10.3389/fnut.2021.661455. eCollection
 2021.

Increased Oxidative Stress in the Prefrontal Cortex as a Shared Feature of 
Depressive- and PTSD-Like Syndromes: Effects of a Standardized Herbal 
Antioxidant.

de Munter J(1), Pavlov D(1)(2), Gorlova A(1)(2), Sicker M(3), Proshin A(4), 
Kalueff AV(5)(6)(7)(8), Svistunov A(9), Kiselev D(2)(9)(10), Nedorubov A(9), 
Morozov S(10), Umriukhin A(2), Lesch KP(1)(2)(11), Strekalova T(1)(2)(10)(11), 
Schroeter CA(12).

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychiatry and Neuropsychology, School for Mental Health and 
Neuroscience, Maastricht University, Maastricht, Netherlands.
(2)Laboratory of Psychiatric Neurobiology, Institute of Molecular Medicine and 
Department of Normal Physiology, Sechenov First Moscow State Medical University, 
Moscow, Russia.
(3)Rehabilitation Research Unit of Clinic of Bad Kreuzbach, Bad Kreuzbach, 
Germany.
(4)PK Anokhin Research Institute of Normal Physiology, Moscow, Russia.
(5)Ural Federal University, Yekaterinburg, Russia.
(6)Institute of Translational Biomedicine, St. Petersburg State University, St. 
Petersburg, Russia.
(7)Neuroscience Program, Sirius University, Sochi, Russia.
(8)School of Biological and Medical Physics, Moscow Institute of Physics and 
Technology, Moscow, Russia.
(9)Institute for Translational Medicine and Biotechnology, Preclinical Research 
Center of Sechenov First Moscow State Medical University, Moscow, Russia.
(10)Federal Budgetary Institute of General Pathology and Pathophysiology, 
Moscow, Russia.
(11)Division of Molecular Psychiatry, Center of Mental Health, University of 
Würzburg, Würzburg, Germany.
(12)Department of Preventive Medicine, Maastricht Medical Center Annadal, 
Maastricht, Netherlands.

Major depression (MD) and posttraumatic stress disorder (PTSD) share common 
brain mechanisms and treatment strategies. Nowadays, the dramatically developing 
COVID-19 situation unavoidably results in stress, psychological trauma, and high 
incidence of MD and PTSD. Hence, the importance of the development of new 
treatments for these disorders cannot be overstated. Herbal medicine appears to 
be an effective and safe treatment with fewer side effects than classic pharmaca 
and that is affordable in low-income countries. Currently, oxidative stress and 
neuroinflammation attract increasing attention as important mechanisms of MD and 
PTSD. We investigated the effects of a standardized herbal cocktail (SHC), an 
extract of clove, bell pepper, basil, pomegranate, nettle, and other plants, 
that was designed as an antioxidant treatment in mouse models of MD and PTSD. In 
the MD model of "emotional" ultrasound stress (US), mice were subjected to 
ultrasound frequencies of 16-20 kHz, mimicking rodent sounds of anxiety/despair 
and "neutral" frequencies of 25-45 kHz, for three weeks and concomitantly 
treated with SHC. US-exposed mice showed elevated concentrations of oxidative 
stress markers malondialdehyde and protein carbonyl, increased gene and protein 
expression of pro-inflammatory cytokines interleukin (IL)-1β and IL-6 and other 
molecular changes in the prefrontal cortex as well as weight loss, helplessness, 
anxiety-like behavior, and neophobia that were ameliorated by the SHC treatment. 
In the PTSD model of the modified forced swim test (modFST), in which a 2-day 
swim is followed by an additional swim on day 5, mice were pretreated with SHC 
for 16 days. Increases in the floating behavior and oxidative stress markers 
malondialdehyde and protein carbonyl in the prefrontal cortex of modFST-mice 
were prevented by the administration of SHC. Chromatography mass spectrometry 
revealed bioactive constituents of SHC, including D-ribofuranose, 
beta-D-lactose, malic, glyceric, and citric acids that can modulate oxidative 
stress, immunity, and gut and microbiome functions and, thus, are likely to be 
active antistress elements underlying the beneficial effects of SHC. Significant 
correlations of malondialdehyde concentration in the prefrontal cortex with 
altered measures of behavioral despair and anxiety-like behavior suggest that 
the accumulation of oxidative stress markers are a common biological feature of 
MD and PTSD that can be equally effectively targeted therapeutically with 
antioxidant therapy, such as the SHC investigated here.

Copyright © 2021 de Munter, Pavlov, Gorlova, Sicker, Proshin, Kalueff, 
Svistunov, Kiselev, Nedorubov, Morozov, Umriukhin, Lesch, Strekalova and 
Schroeter.

DOI: 10.3389/fnut.2021.661455
PMCID: PMC8086427
PMID: 33937310

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that the research was 
conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial relationships that could 
be construed as a potential conflict of interest.


209. Nutrients. 2021 Apr 6;13(4):1201. doi: 10.3390/nu13041201.

Obesity Prevents S-Adenosylmethionine-Mediated Improvements in Age-Related 
Peripheral and Hippocampal Outcomes.

Vander Velden JW(1), Osborne DM(1).

Author information:
(1)R.S. Dow Neurobiology Department, Legacy Research Institute, Portland, OR 
97232, USA.

BACKGROUND: Age predisposes individuals to a myriad of disorders involving 
inflammation; this includes stress-related neuropsychiatric disorders such as 
depression and anxiety, and neurodegenerative diseases. Obesity can further 
exacerbate these effects in the brain. We investigated whether an inexpensive 
dietary supplement, s-adenosylmethionine (SAMe), could improve age- and/or 
obesity-related inflammatory and affective measures in the hippocampus.
METHODS: Mice were placed on their diets at six weeks of age and then aged to 14 
months, receiving SAMe (0.1 g/kg of food) for the final six weeks of the 
experiment. Prior to tissue collection, mice were tested for anxiety-like 
behaviors in the open field test and for metabolic outcomes related to type 2 
diabetes.
RESULTS: SAMe treatment significantly improved outcomes in aged control mice, 
where fasting glucose decreased, liver glutathione levels increased, and 
hippocampal microglia morphology improved. SAMe increased transforming growth 
factor β-1 mRNA in both control mice, potentially accounting for improved 
microglial outcomes. Obese mice demonstrated increased anxiety-like behavior, 
where SAMe improved some, but not all, open field measures.
CONCLUSIONS: In summary, SAMe boosted antioxidant levels, improved diabetic 
measures, and hippocampal inflammatory and behavioral outcomes in aged mice. The 
effects of SAMe in obese mice were more subdued, but it could still provide some 
positive outcomes for obese individuals dealing with anxiety and having 
difficulty changing their behaviors to improve health outcomes.

DOI: 10.3390/nu13041201
PMCID: PMC8067411
PMID: 33917279 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


210. Molecules. 2021 Apr 1;26(7):2009. doi: 10.3390/molecules26072009.

The Potential of Parsley Polyphenols and Their Antioxidant Capacity to Help in 
the Treatment of Depression and Anxiety: An In Vivo Subacute Study.

Es-Safi I(1), Mechchate H(1), Amaghnouje A(1), Kamaly OMA(2), Jawhari FZ(1), 
Imtara H(3), Grafov A(4), Bousta D(1).

Author information:
(1)Laboratory of Biotechnology, Environment, Agri-Food and Health (LBEAS), 
Faculty of Sciences Dhar El Mahraz, Sidi Mohamed Ben Abdellah University 
(USMBA), Fez 30050, Morocco.
(2)Department of Pharmaceutical Sciences, College of Pharmacy, Princess Nourah 
Bint Abdulrahman University, Riyadh 11564, Saudi Arabia.
(3)Faculty of Arts and Sciences, Arab American University Palestine, Jenin 240, 
Palestine.
(4)Department of Chemistry, University of Helsinki, 00100 Helsinki, Finland.

Depression and anxiety are major mental health problems in all parts of the 
world. These illnesses are associated with a number of risk factors, including 
oxidative stress. Psychotropic drugs of a chemical nature have demonstrated 
several side effects that elevated the impact of those illnesses. Faced with 
this situation, natural products appear to be a promising alternative. The aim 
of this study was to evaluate the anxiolytic and antidepressant effects of the 
Petroselinum sativum polyphenols in vivo, as well as its correlated antioxidant 
properties in vitro. Anxiolytic activity of the extract (50 and 100 mg/kg) was 
evaluated using the open field and the light-dark chamber tests, while the 
antidepressant activity was evaluated using the forced swimming test. The 
antioxidant activity of the extract was evaluated by the 
2,2-diphenyl-1-picrylhydrazyl (DPPH) free radical test and the FRAP 
(iron-reducing capacity) test. The phenolic extract showed very powerful 
anxiolytic and antidepressant-like effects, especially at a dose of 100 mg/kg, 
decreasing the depressive behavior in mice (decreased immobility time) and also 
the anxiolytic behavior (tendency for discovery in the center and illuminated 
areas) better even than those of paroxetine and bromazepam (classic drugs) 
concomitant with those results the extract also showed an important antioxidant 
capacity. These preliminary results suggest that Petroselinum sativum exhibits 
anxiolytic and antidepressant potential for use as a complement or independent 
phytomedicine to treat depression and anxiety.

DOI: 10.3390/molecules26072009
PMCID: PMC8037343
PMID: 33916097 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


211. Mol Med Rep. 2021 Jun;23(6):463. doi: 10.3892/mmr.2021.12102. Epub 2021 Apr
21.

miR‑146a reduces depressive behavior by inhibiting microglial activation.

Liu CP(1), Zhong M(2), Sun JX(2), He J(1), Gao Y(1), Qin FX(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychiatry, Binzhou People's Hospital, Binzhou, Shandong 
256600, P.R. China.
(2)Department of Psychiatry, Binzhou Youfu Hospital, Binzhou, Shandong 256600, 
P.R. China.
(3)Department of Psychology, Shandong Provincial Mental Health Center, Jinan, 
Shandong 250014, P.R. China.

Depression is one of the major psychiatric diseases affecting the quality of 
life for individuals worldwide. Numerous reports have investigated depression, 
although its etiology remains to be elucidated. microRNA (miR)‑146a is suggested 
to regulate innate immune and inflammatory responses. However, it is unclear 
whether miR‑146a is involved in depression. Depression model mice were 
established using lipopolysaccharide‑induced depression and chronic 
unpredictable mild stress, separately. miR‑146a mimic and short interfering RNA 
were used to treat depressed mice. Depression‑like behaviors and levels of 
pro‑inflammatory cytokines were measured, while ionized calcium binding adapter 
molecule 1 (Iba‑1) expression in hippocampus was quantified by 
immunohistochemistry. Neuroinflammatory factor levels in hippocampus were 
measured by western blotting. BV‑2 cells were used to confirm that miR‑146a 
suppressed microglia activation. Compared with control mice, the two depressed 
mouse models showed clearly decreased sucrose preference and significantly 
increased immobility time in the forced swimming test and tail suspension test 
(P<0.05). miR‑146a overexpression significantly increased sucrose preference and 
reduced immobility time in depressed mice (P<0.05). However, total distance 
traveled in the locomotor activity test did not differ among groups. Compared 
with controls, expression levels of Iba‑1, inducible nitric oxide, IL‑1β, TNF‑α, 
interleukin 1 receptor associated kinase 1 (IRAK1), TNF receptor‑associated 
factor 6 (TRAF6) and phosphorylated NF‑κB p65 were significantly increased in 
depressed mice (P<0.05). miR‑146a overexpression effectively inhibited 
expression of these neuroinflammatory proteins, while miR‑146a silencing 
significantly upregulated their expression (P<0.05). Consistent with these 
in vivo results, miR‑146a mimic treatment inhibited TNF‑α, IL‑1β, IRAK1 and 
TRAF6 expression in BV‑2 cells. miR‑146a improved depressive behaviors in 
depressed model mice by inhibiting microglial activation and neuroinflammatory 
factor expression.

DOI: 10.3892/mmr.2021.12102
PMCID: PMC8097766
PMID: 33880591 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that they have no competing 
interests.


212. Autism Res. 2021 Aug;14(8):1554-1571. doi: 10.1002/aur.2516. Epub 2021 Apr
19.

Differential effects by sex with Kmt5b loss.

Wickramasekara RN(1), Robertson B(1), Hulen J(1), Hallgren J(1), Stessman 
HAF(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmacology & Neuroscience, School of Medicine, Creighton 
University, Omaha, Nebraska, USA.

Lysine methyl transferase 5B (KMT5B) has been recently highlighted as a risk 
gene in genetic studies of neurodevelopmental disorders (NDDs), specifically, 
autism spectrum disorder (ASD) and intellectual disability (ID); yet, its role 
in the brain is not known. The goal of this work was to neurodevelopmentally 
characterize the effect(s) of KMT5B haploinsufficiency using a mouse model. A 
Kmt5b gene-trap mouse line was obtained from the Knockout Mouse Project. Wild 
type (WT) and heterozygous (HET) mice were subjected to a comprehensive 
neurodevelopmental test battery to assess reflexes, motor behavior, 
learning/memory, social behavior, repetitive movement, and common ASD 
comorbidities (obsessive compulsion, depression, and anxiety). Given the strong 
sex bias observed in the ASD patient population, we tested both a male and 
female cohort of animals and compared differences between genotypes and sexes. 
HET mice were significantly smaller than WT littermates starting at postnatal 
day 10 through young adulthood which was correlated with smaller brain size 
(i.e., microcephaly). This was more severe in males than females. HET male 
neonates also had delayed eye opening and significantly weaker reflexes than WT 
littermates. In young adults, significant differences between genotypes relative 
to anxiety, depression, fear, and extinction learning were observed. 
Interestingly, several sexually dimorphic differences were noted including 
increased repetitive grooming behavior in HET females and an increased latency 
to hot plate response in HET females versus a decreased latency in HET males. 
LAY SUMMARY: Lysine methyl transferase 5B (KMT5B) has been recently highlighted 
as a risk gene in neurodevelopmental disorders (NDDs), specifically, autism 
spectrum disorder (ASD) and intellectual disability (ID); yet its role in the 
brain is not known. Our study indicates that mice lacking one genomic copy of 
Kmt5b show deficits in neonatal reflexes, sociability, repetitive stress-induced 
grooming, changes in thermal pain sensing, decreased depression and anxiety, 
increased fear, slower extinction learning, and lower body weight, length, and 
brain size. Furthermore, several outcomes differed by sex, perhaps mirroring the 
sex bias in ASD.

© 2021 International Society for Autism Research and Wiley Periodicals LLC.

DOI: 10.1002/aur.2516
PMCID: PMC8328928
PMID: 33871180 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


213. Neurobiol Stress. 2021 Mar 17;14:100317. doi: 10.1016/j.ynstr.2021.100317. 
eCollection 2021 May.

Brain histamine and oleoylethanolamide restore behavioral deficits induced by 
chronic social defeat stress in mice.

Rani B(1), Santangelo A(1), Romano A(2), Koczwara JB(2), Friuli M(2), Provensi 
G(3), Blandina P(3), Casarrubea M(4), Gaetani S(2), Passani MB(1), Costa A(1).

Author information:
(1)Dipartimento di Scienze della Salute, Università di Firenze (I), Italy.
(2)Dipartimento di Fisiologia e Farmacologia 'V. Erspamer', Sapienza Università 
di Roma, Roma, Italy.
(3)Dipartimento di Neuroscienze, Psicologia, Area del Farmaco e Salute del 
bambino (Neurofarba) Università di Firenze Viale Pieraccini 6, 50139, Firenze 
Italy.
(4)Dipartimento di Biomedicina, Neuroscienze e Diagnostica Avanzata (Bi.N.D.), 
Sezione di Fisiologia Umana "Giuseppe Pagano", Università degli Studi di 
Palermo, Corso Tukory 129, 90134, Palermo, Italy.

The physiological mechanisms underlying the complex interplay between life 
stressors and metabolic factors is receiving growing interest and is being 
analyzed as one of the many factors contributing to depressive illness. The 
brain histaminergic system modulates neuronal activity extensively and we 
demonstrated that its integrity is necessary for peripheral signals such as the 
bioactive lipid mediator oleoylethanolamide (OEA) to exert its central actions. 
Here, we investigated the role of brain histamine and its interaction with OEA 
in response to chronic social defeat stress (CSDS), a preclinical protocol 
widely used to study physio-pathological mechanisms underlying symptoms observed 
in depression. Both histidine decarboxylase null (HDC-/-) and HDC+/+ mice were 
subjected to CSDS for 21 days and treated with either OEA or vehicle daily, 
starting 10 days after CSDS initiation, until sacrifice. Undisturbed mice served 
as controls. To test the hypothesis of a histamine-OEA interplay on behavioral 
responses affected by chronic stress, tests encompassing the social, ethological 
and memory domains were used. CSDS caused cognitive and social behavior 
impairments in both genotypes, however, only stressed HDC+/+ mice responded to 
the beneficial effects of OEA. To detect subtle behavioral features, an advanced 
multivariate approach known as T-pattern analysis was used. It revealed 
unexpected differences of the organization of behavioral sequences during mice 
social interaction between the two genotypes. These data confirm the centrality 
of the neurotransmitter histamine as a modulator of complex behavioral responses 
and directly implicate OEA as a protective agent against social stress 
consequences in a histamine dependent fashion.

© 2021 The Authors.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ynstr.2021.100317
PMCID: PMC8039856
PMID: 33869681

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


214. J Ginseng Res. 2021 Mar;45(2):254-263. doi: 10.1016/j.jgr.2019.11.003. Epub
2019  Nov 7.

Korean Red Ginseng reduces chronic social defeat stress-induced mood disorders 
via N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor modulation in mice.

Lee BR(1), Lee JH(1), Ko YH(1), Seo JY(1), Hur KH(1), Kim YJ(1), Kim SK(1), Kim 
SE(1), Lee SY(1), Jang CG(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmacology, School of Pharmacy, Sungkyunkwan University, 
Suwon, 16419, Republic of Korea.

BACKGROUND: A chronic social defeat stress (CSDS) model has been proposed as 
relevant to stress-induced behavioral change in humans. In this study, we 
examined the effect of Korean Red Ginseng (KRG) on CSDS-induced mood disorders 
and protein expression in an animal model.
METHODS: To evaluate the effect of KRG on social defeat stress, test mice were 
exposed in the resident aggressor's home cage compartment for 14 days beginning 
1 h after KRG treatment (10, 20, and 40 mg/kg, per oral (p.o.)). After the 
exposure, behavioral tests to measure anxiety, social interaction, and 
depression-like behavior were performed. To investigate the underlying 
mechanism, N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor expression levels in CSDS-induced mice 
were evaluated using Western blot analysis.
RESULTS: CSDS induced anxiety-like behaviors by decreasing central activity in 
the open-field test and open-arm approach in the elevated plus maze test and led 
to social avoidance behavior in the social interaction test. CSDS mice showed 
upregulated NR1, NR2A, and NR2B expression in the hippocampus. KRG 20 and 40 
mg/kg ameliorated anxiety-like activities and KRG 20 mg/kg alleviated social 
avoidance by decreasing time in the corner zone. KRG treatment recovered 
CSDS-induced NR1, NR2A, and NR2B protein levels in the hippocampus.
CONCLUSION: These results indicate that KRG has a therapeutic effect on 
CSDS-induced mood disorder by alleviating N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor 
overexpression in the hippocampus.

© 2019 The Korean Society of Ginseng, Published by Elsevier Korea LLC.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jgr.2019.11.003
PMCID: PMC8020286
PMID: 33841006

Conflict of interest statement: The authors have no conflicting interests to 
disclose.


215. Pharmacol Res. 2021 Jun;168:105601. doi: 10.1016/j.phrs.2021.105601. Epub
2021  Apr 8.

A novel method for automatic pharmacological evaluation of sucrose preference 
change in depression mice.

Yin CY(1), Li LD(2), Xu C(2), Du ZW(2), Wu JM(2), Chen X(2), Xia T(2), Huang 
SY(2), Meng F(2), Zhang J(2), Xu PJ(3), Hua FZ(4), Muhammad N(5), Han F(6), Zhou 
QG(7).

Author information:
(1)Department of Clinical Pharmacology, School of Pharmacy, Nanjing Medical 
University, Nanjing 211166, China; Department of Neonatal Medical Center, 
Children's Hospital of Nanjing Medical University, Nanjing 210008, China.
(2)Department of Clinical Pharmacology, School of Pharmacy, Nanjing Medical 
University, Nanjing 211166, China.
(3)Wanxiang Biotechnology company, Nanyang 473061, China.
(4)The Second Affiliated Hospital of Nanchang University, Nanchang University, 
Nanchang 330006, China.
(5)Key Laboratory of Cardiovascular and Cerebrovascular Medicine of Jiangsu 
Province, School of Pharmacy, Nanjing Medical University, Nanjing 211166, China.
(6)Key Laboratory of Cardiovascular and Cerebrovascular Medicine of Jiangsu 
Province, School of Pharmacy, Nanjing Medical University, Nanjing 211166, China. 
Electronic address: fenghan169@njmu.edu.cn.
(7)Department of Clinical Pharmacology, School of Pharmacy, Nanjing Medical 
University, Nanjing 211166, China; Key Laboratory of Cardiovascular and 
Cerebrovascular Medicine of Jiangsu Province, School of Pharmacy, Nanjing 
Medical University, Nanjing 211166, China; Sir Run Run Hospital, Nanjing Medical 
University, Nanjing 211166, China. Electronic address: qigangzhou@njmu.edu.cn.

Sucrose preference test (SPT) is a most frequently applied method for measuring 
anhedonia, a core symptom of depression, in rodents. However, the method of SPT 
still remains problematic mainly due to the primitive, irregular, and inaccurate 
various types of home-made equipment in laboratories, causing imprecise, 
inconsistent, and variable results. To overcome this issue, we devised a novel 
method for automatic detection of anhedonia in mice using an electronic 
apparatus with its program for automated detecting the behavior of drinking of 
mice instead of manual weighing the water bottles. In this system, the liquid 
surface of the bottles was monitored electronically by infrared monitoring 
elements which were assembled beside the plane of the water surface and the 
information of times and duration of each drinking was collected to the 
principal machine. A corresponding computer program was written and installed in 
a computer connected to the principal machine for outputting and analyzing the 
data. This new method, based on the automated system, was sensitive, reliable, 
and adaptable for evaluation of stress- or drug-induced anhedonia, as well as 
taste preference and effects of addictive drugs. Extensive application of this 
automated apparatus for SPT would greatly improve and standardize the behavioral 
assessment method of anhedonia, being instrumental in novel antidepressant 
screening and depression researching.

Copyright © 2021 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Ltd.. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.phrs.2021.105601
PMID: 33838294 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


216. Front Neurosci. 2021 Mar 12;15:621446. doi: 10.3389/fnins.2021.621446. 
eCollection 2021.

Possible Involvement of MyD88 in Regulating Stress Response in Mice.

Hosoi T(1), Yamawaki Y(2)(3), Kimura H(4), Honda S(4), Ozawa K(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Clinical Pharmacology, Faculty of Pharmaceutical Sciences, 
Sanyo-Onoda City University, Yamaguchi, Japan.
(2)Department of Cellular and Molecular Pharmacology, Institute of Biomedical 
and Health Sciences, Hiroshima University, Hiroshima, Japan.
(3)Laboratory of Advanced Pharmacology, Daiichi University of Pharmacy, Fukuoka, 
Japan.
(4)Department of Pharmacotherapy, Graduate School of Biomedical and Health 
Sciences, Hiroshima University, Hiroshima, Japan.

Myeloid differentiation primary response 88 (MyD88) is an adapter protein of the 
toll-like receptor (TLR) family that regulates innate immune function. Here, we 
identified a novel role of MyD88 in regulating stress response. MyD88 deficiency 
decreased immobility time in the forced swim test without affecting locomotor 
activity in mice. Immobilization stress-induced production of serum 
corticosterone was also completely inhibited by MyD88 deficiency. Stress induced 
decrease in glucocorticoid receptor in the hippocampus. On the other hand, 
stress exposure in MyD88 deficient mice did not cause decrease in its level in 
the hippocampus. Furthermore, immobilization stress-induced reduction of 
brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) levels in the hippocampus was 
ameliorated by MyD88 deficiency. These results suggest that MyD88 deficiency 
attenuates depression-like behavior by regulating corticosterone and BDNF 
levels. Overall, these results indicate the key role of MyD88 in regulating 
stress response in mice.

Copyright © 2021 Hosoi, Yamawaki, Kimura, Honda and Ozawa.

DOI: 10.3389/fnins.2021.621446
PMCID: PMC8006405
PMID: 33790733

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that the research was 
conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial relationships that could 
be construed as a potential conflict of interest.


217. Front Pharmacol. 2021 Mar 4;12:619288. doi: 10.3389/fphar.2021.619288. 
eCollection 2021.

Analysis of Antidepressant Activity of Huang-Lian Jie-Du Decoction Through 
Network Pharmacology and Metabolomics.

Qu SY(1), Li XY(2), Heng X(1), Qi YY(1), Ge PY(1), Ni SJ(2), Yao ZY(2), Guo 
R(3), Yang NY(1), Cao Y(4), Zhang QC(1)(2), Zhu HX(1).

Author information:
(1)Jiangsu Key Laboratory for High Technology Research of TCM Formulae, Nanjing 
University of Chinese Medicine, Nanjing, China.
(2)Jiangsu Key Laboratory for Pharmacology and Safety Evaluation of Chinese 
Materia Medica, School of Pharmacy, Nanjing University of Chinese Medicine, 
Nanjing, China.
(3)School of Medicine and Holistic Integrative Medicine, Nanjing University of 
Chinese Medicine, Nanjing, China.
(4)Institute of Literature in Chinese Medicine, Nanjing University of Chinese 
Medicine, Nanjing, China.

Depressive disorder is a common mental disorder characterized by depressed mood 
and loss of interest or pleasure. As the Herbal medicines are mainly used as 
complementary and alternative therapy for depression. This study aimed at 
exploring antidepressant activity of Huang-lian Jie-du Decoction (HLJDD), and 
evaluating active components and potential depression-associated targets. HLJDD 
was administered on chronic unpredictable mild stress-induced (CUMS) depressive 
mice. Behavior evaluation was performed through force swimming test (FST), 
novelty-suppressed feeding test (NSF), and open field test (OFT). Active 
components of HLJDD, potential targets, and metabolic pathways involved in 
depression were explored through systemic biology-based network pharmacology 
assay, molecular docking and metabonomics. FST assay showed that CUMS mice 
administered with HLJDD had significantly shorter immobility time compared with 
control mice. Further, HLJDD alleviated feeding latency of CUMS mice in NSFand 
increased moving distance and duration in OFT. In the following network 
pharmacology assay, thirty-eight active compounds in HLJDD were identified based 
on drug-like characteristics, and pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics 
profiles. Moreover, forty-eight molecular targets and ten biochemical pathways 
were uncovered through molecular docking and metabonomics. GRIN2B, DRD, PRKCA, 
HTR, MAOA, SLC6A4, GRIN2A, and CACNA1A are implicated in inhibition of 
depressive symptoms through modulating tryptophan metabolism, serotonergic and 
dopaminergic synaptic activities, cAMP signaling pathway, and calcium signaling 
pathway. Further network pharmacology-based analysis showed a correlation 
between HLJDD and tryptophan metabolism. A total of thirty-seven active 
compounds, seventy-six targets, and sixteen biochemical pathways were involved 
in tryptophan metabolism. These findings show that HLJDD acts on potential 
targets such as SLC6A4, HTR, INS, MAO, CAT, and FoxO, PI3K/Akt, calcium, HIF-1, 
and mTOR signaling pathways, and modulates serotoninergic and dopaminergic 
synaptic functions. In addition, metabonomics showed that tryptophan metabolism 
is the primary target for HLJDD in CUMS mice. The findings of the study show 
that HLJDD exhibited antidepressant effects. SLC6A4 and MAOA in tryptophan 
metabolism were modulated by berberine, baicalein, tetrahydroberberine, 
candicine and may be the main antidepressant targets for HLJDD.

Copyright © 2021 Qu, Li, Heng, Qi, Ge, Ni, Yao, Guo, Yang, Cao, Zhang and Zhu.

DOI: 10.3389/fphar.2021.619288
PMCID: PMC7970346
PMID: 33746756

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that the research was 
conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial relationships that could 
be construed as a potential conflict of interest.


218. J Dairy Sci. 2021 Jun;104(6):6415-6430. doi: 10.3168/jds.2020-19222. Epub
2021  Mar 23.

Kefir peptides exhibit antidepressant-like activity in mice through the 
BDNF/TrkB pathway.

Chen HL(1), Lan YW(2), Tu MY(3), Tung YT(4), Chan MN(5), Wu HS(2), Yen CC(6), 
Chen CM(7).

Author information:
(1)Department of Biomedical Sciences, Da-Yeh University, Changhwa 515, Taiwan.
(2)Department of Life Sciences, and PhD Program in Translational Medicine, 
National Chung Hsing University, Taichung 402, Taiwan.
(3)Department of Health Business Administration, Meiho University, Pingtung 912, 
Taiwan; Aviation Physiology Research Laboratory, Kaohsiung Armed Forces General 
Hospital Gangshan Branch, Kaohsiung 820, Taiwan; Institute of Medical Science 
and Technology, National Sun Yat-Sen University, Kaohsiung 804, Taiwan.
(4)Department of Life Sciences, and PhD Program in Translational Medicine, 
National Chung Hsing University, Taichung 402, Taiwan; Institute of Metabolism 
and Obesity Sciences, Taipei Medical University, Taipei 110, Taiwan.
(5)Division of Structural Biology and Biochemistry, Nanyang Technological 
University, Singapore 639798, Singapore.
(6)Department of Life Sciences, and PhD Program in Translational Medicine, 
National Chung Hsing University, Taichung 402, Taiwan; Department of Internal 
Medicine, China Medical University Hospital, and College of Health Care, China 
Medical University, Taichung 404, Taiwan.
(7)Department of Life Sciences, and PhD Program in Translational Medicine, 
National Chung Hsing University, Taichung 402, Taiwan; The iEGG and Animal 
Biotechnology Center, and Rong Hsing Research Center for Translational Medicine, 
National Chung Hsing University, Taichung 402, Taiwan. Electronic address: 
chchen1@dragon.nchu.edu.tw.

Depression is a prevalent, stress-related mental disorder that can lead to 
serious psychiatric diseases with morbidity and high mortality. Although some 
functional fermented dairy drinks have promising anxiolytic and antidepressant 
effects, the mechanism is still not clear. To determine the antidepressant-like 
effect and the potential molecule mechanism of kefir peptides (KP), various 
behavioral tests, including the elevated plus maze test, open field test, forced 
swimming test, and tail suspension test, were used. Administration of 150 mg/kg 
KP in mice reduced the duration of immobility in the forced swimming test and 
tail suspension test, elevated the time spent in the open arm and center zone in 
the elevated plus maze test, and increased the total distance traveled, average 
speed, and time spent in the center zone in the open field test compared with 
the mock group. These results indicated that KP dramatically ameliorated the 
depression-like behaviors. Kefir peptides were further isolated and identified 
using high-performance liquid chromatography and liquid chromatography-tandem 
mass spectrometry, from which 3 peptides were identified and designated KFP-1, 
KFP-3, and KFP-5. Among these peptides, administration of KFP-3 (15 AA residues) 
remarkably decreased immobility time in the forced swimming test and increased 
mobility time in the tail suspension test. Therefore, KFP-3 may be the major 
active peptide with antidepressant activity in KP. Overexpression of 
brain-derived neurotrophic factor, phosphorylated tropomyosin receptor kinase B, 
and phosphorylated ERK1/2 protein levels could be detected in the hippocampus 
under KP administration. Therefore, we suggest that KP improves depressive-like 
behaviors by activating the brain-derived neurotrophic factor-phosphorylated 
tropomyosin receptor kinase B signaling pathway. Kefir peptides may serve as a 
new type of antidepressant dairy product and may provide potent antidepressant 
effects for clinical use.

Copyright © 2021 American Dairy Science Association. Published by Elsevier Inc. 
All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.3168/jds.2020-19222
PMID: 33741171 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


219. Biomed Pharmacother. 2021 Jun;138:111387. doi: 10.1016/j.biopha.2021.111387.
 Epub 2021 Mar 13.

Study on the antidepressant effect of panaxynol through the IκB-α/NF-κB 
signaling pathway to inhibit the excessive activation of BV-2 microglia.

Zhao Y(1), Sun X(1), Zhang T(1), Liu S(2), Cai E(1), Zhu H(1).

Author information:
(1)College of Chinese Medicinal Materials, Jilin Agricultural University, 
Changchun, China.
(2)College of Chinese Medicinal Materials, Jilin Agricultural University, 
Changchun, China; National & Local Joint Engineering Research Center for Ginseng 
Breeding and Application, Jilin Agricultural University, Changchun, Jilin, 
China. Electronic address: liushuangli@jlau.edu.cn.

Panaxynol (PAL) mainly comes from Umbelliferae plants, which has 
anti-inflammatory and neuroprotective activities. Lipopolysaccharide 
(LPS)-induced depression in mice was a classic model for studying the effects of 
drugs on depression in mice. The purpose of this study was to investigate the 
mechanism and effect of PAL on depression by LPS induced in mice. In the tail 
suspension test (TST) and forced swimming test (FST) results, PAL significantly 
reduced the immobility time of mice. In the result of the open field test (OFT) 
and the elevated plus maze test (EPM), improved their exploration ability. 
According to the results of ELISA, PAL could significantly reduce the tumor 
necrosis factor-α (TNF-α) and interleukin- 6 (IL-6) levels in serum. Increase 
the superoxide dismutase (SDO) level and decrease the malondialdehyde (MDA) 
level in hippocampus. According to Western blotting analysis results, PAL 
increased the protein expression of brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) and 
tyrosine kinase receptor B (TrkB), decreased the nuclear transport of nuclear 
factor kappa-Bp65 (NF-κBp65) and phosphorylation of inhibitor of NF-κB (IκB-α). 
Meanwhile, PAL also inhibited the production of nitric oxide in BV-2 microglia 
and decreased the level of inflammatory factors. PAL also reduced levels of 
oxidative stress and inhibited protein expression in the NF-κB/IκB-α 
inflammatory pathway and increased the protein expression of BDNF/TrkB, thereby 
inhibiting the over-activation of BV-2 microglia. In conclusion, according to 
the results of the behavioral text, it is proved that PAL could effectively 
alleviate LPS induced depression behavior in mice. The mechanism may be that the 
anti-inflammatory and anti-oxidative stress effects of PAL reduce the release of 
inflammatory factors in the mouse brain. Meanwhile, PAL could improve brain 
neurotrophic factors, inhibit the excessive activation of BV-2 microglia, and 
further inhibit the depressive state of the mice.

Copyright © 2021. Published by Elsevier Masson SAS.

DOI: 10.1016/j.biopha.2021.111387
PMID: 33721753 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


220. Biol Psychiatry. 2021 Jun 15;89(12):1138-1149. doi: 
10.1016/j.biopsych.2020.12.030. Epub 2021 Jan 13.

Nucleus Accumbens Medium Spiny Neuron Subtypes Differentially Regulate 
Stress-Associated Alterations in Sleep Architecture.

McCullough KM(1), Missig G(1), Robble MA(1), Foilb AR(1), Wells AM(1), Hartmann 
J(1), Anderson KJ(1), Neve RL(2), Nestler EJ(3), Ressler KJ(1), Carlezon WA 
Jr(4).

Author information:
(1)Basic Neuroscience Division, Department of Psychiatry, Harvard Medical 
School, McLean Hospital, Belmont, Massachusetts.
(2)Department of Neurology, Massachusetts General Hospital, Boston, 
Massachusetts.
(3)Nash Family Department of Neuroscience, Friedman Brain Institute, Icahn 
School of Medicine at Mount Sinai, New York, New York.
(4)Basic Neuroscience Division, Department of Psychiatry, Harvard Medical 
School, McLean Hospital, Belmont, Massachusetts. Electronic address: 
bcarlezon@mclean.harvard.edu.

Comment in
    Biol Psychiatry. 2021 Jun 15;89(12):1108-1110.

BACKGROUND: Stress is implicated in the pathophysiology of major depression and 
posttraumatic stress disorder. These conditions share core features, including 
motivational deficits, heighted anxiety, and sleep dysregulation. Chronic stress 
produces these same features in rodents, with some individuals being susceptible 
or resilient, as seen in humans. While stress-induced neuroadaptations within 
the nucleus accumbens are implicated in susceptibility-related dysregulation of 
motivational and emotional behaviors, their effects on sleep are unclear.
METHODS: We used chemogenetics (DREADDs [designer receptors exclusively 
activated by designer drugs]) to examine the effects of selective alterations in 
activity of nucleus accumbens medium spiny neurons expressing dopamine D1 
receptors (D1-MSNs) or dopamine D2 receptors (D2-MSNs) on sleep-related end 
points. Mice were implanted with wireless transmitters enabling continuous 
collection of data to quantify vigilance states over a 20-day test period. 
Parallel cohorts were examined in behavioral tests assessing stress 
susceptibility.
RESULTS: D1- and D2-MSNs play dissociable roles in sleep regulation. Stimulation 
of inhibitory or excitatory DREADDs expressed in D1-MSNs exclusively affects 
rapid eye movement sleep, whereas targeting D2-MSNs affects slow wave sleep. The 
combined effects of D1-MSN inhibition and D2-MSN activation on sleep resemble 
those of chronic social defeat stress. Alterations in D1-MSN function also 
affect stress susceptibility in social behavior tests. Elevation of CREB (cAMP 
response element-binding protein) within D1-MSNs is sufficient to produce 
stress-like effects on rapid eye movement sleep.
CONCLUSIONS: In addition to regulation of motivational and emotional behaviors, 
the nucleus accumbens also influences sleep, an end point with high 
translational relevance. These findings provide a neural basis for comorbidity 
in key features of stress-related illness.

Copyright © 2021 Society of Biological Psychiatry. Published by Elsevier Inc. 
All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.biopsych.2020.12.030
PMCID: PMC8178228
PMID: 33715826 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


221. Turk J Pharm Sci. 2021 Feb 25;18(1):21-27. doi:
10.4274/tjps.galenos.2019.71300.

A Synbiotic Mixture Ameliorates Depressive Behavior Induced by Dexamethasone or 
Water Avoidance Stress in a Mouse Model.

Mesripour A(1), Rakhshankhah P(1).

Author information:
(1)Isfahan University of Medical Sciences, School of Pharmacy and Pharmaceutical 
Sciences, Department of Pharmacology and Toxicology, Isfahan, Iran.

OBJECTIVES: Disruption of the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal axis by stress and 
glucocorticoid drugs is a major cause of depression. The benefits of probiotics 
may extend to systems beyond the gastrointestinal tract, i.e., the central 
nervous system. Therefore, the effect of a synbiotic (probiotic + prebiotic) 
mixture on dexamethasone (Dex) and stress-induced depression was investigated.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: Male albino mice were used, the forced swimming test 
(FST) measured despair, and the sucrose preference test measured anhedonia. The 
synbiotic regimen (12.5x106 CFU) was supplemented in drinking water for 7 days. 
Dex was administered subcutaneously either in a single dose on the test day or 
for 7 days. Water avoidance stress (WAS) was induced for 1 hour each day for 4 
days.
RESULTS: Drinking the synbiotic reduced immobility time during the FST (54±7 sec 
vs. 111±6 sec in the control water group, p<0.001). Dex injection significantly 
increased the immobility time (single dose: 166±6 sec and 7 days: 174±9 sec) 
compared with the control groups, while adding the synbiotic to their drinking 
water reduced it (single dose: 81±6.6 sec, and 7 days: 84±14 sec), indicating 
that the synbiotic reversed Dex-induced depression. WAS increased the immobility 
time (148±11 sec vs. sham 99±6 sec, p<0.001) in the FST test. When the synbiotic 
treatment was added following WAS, the immobility time decreased (81±6.5 sec). 
The synbiotic groups also had a higher sucrose preference percentage.
CONCLUSION: The synbiotic mixture prevented the effects of WAS, acute or 
sub-acute Dex-induced depression in mice. Therefore, probiotics might be useful 
and safe supplements to prevent depression related to stress or glucocorticoid 
therapies, a phenomenon that deserves further evaluation.

DOI: 10.4274/tjps.galenos.2019.71300
PMCID: PMC7957306
PMID: 33631927

Conflict of interest statement: Conflicts of interest: No conflict of interest 
was declared by the authors. The authors alone are responsible for the content 
and writing of the paper.


222. PLoS One. 2021 Feb 24;16(2):e0243668. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0243668. 
eCollection 2021.

Effect size, sample size and power of forced swim test assays in mice: 
Guidelines for investigators to optimize reproducibility.

Smalheiser NR(1), Graetz EE(2), Yu Z(2), Wang J(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychiatry, University of Illinois School of Medicine, Chicago, 
Illinois, United States of America.
(2)Department of Mathematics, Statistics, and Computer Science, University of 
Illinois at Chicago, Chicago, Illinois, United States of America.

A recent flood of publications has documented serious problems in scientific 
reproducibility, power, and reporting of biomedical articles, yet scientists 
persist in their usual practices. Why? We examined a popular and important 
preclinical assay, the Forced Swim Test (FST) in mice used to test putative 
antidepressants. Whether the mice were assayed in a naïve state vs. in a model 
of depression or stress, and whether the mice were given test agents vs. known 
antidepressants regarded as positive controls, the mean effect sizes seen in the 
experiments were indeed extremely large (1.5-2.5 in Cohen's d units); most of 
the experiments utilized 7-10 animals per group which did have adequate power to 
reliably detect effects of this magnitude. We propose that this may at least 
partially explain why investigators using the FST do not perceive intuitively 
that their experimental designs fall short-even though proper prospective design 
would require ~21-26 animals per group to detect, at a minimum, large effects 
(0.8 in Cohen's d units) when the true effect of a test agent is unknown. Our 
data provide explicit parameters and guidance for investigators seeking to carry 
out prospective power estimation for the FST. More generally, altering the 
real-life behavior of scientists in planning their experiments may require 
developing educational tools that allow them to actively visualize the 
inter-relationships among effect size, sample size, statistical power, and 
replicability in a direct and intuitive manner.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0243668
PMCID: PMC7904226
PMID: 33626103 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors have declared that no competing 
interests exist.


223. Front Mol Neurosci. 2021 Feb 3;13:131. doi: 10.3389/fnmol.2020.00131. 
eCollection 2020.

Antidepressant-Like Effect of Geniposide in Mice Exposed to a Chronic Mild 
Stress Involves the microRNA-298-5p-Mediated Nox1.

Zou T(1), Zhang J(2), Liu Y(1), Zhang Y(1), Sugimoto K(3), Mei C(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Encephalopathy, Heilongjiang Academy of Chinese Medical 
Sciences, Harbin, China.
(2)Department of Dermatology, Heilongjiang Provincial Hospital Affiliated to 
Harbin Institute of Technology, Harbin, China.
(3)Department of Neurology, Dongzhimen Affiliated Hospital, Beijing University 
of Chinese Medicine, Beijing, China.

Depression is a common mental disorder that presents a considerable challenge 
for public health. The natural product geniposide has neuroprotective effects on 
depression, but the underlying mechanism behind these effects had remained 
undefined. The present study was designed to investigate the role of microRNAs 
(miRs) in this mechanism. It studied mice with depression-like behavior 
established by exposure to chronic unpredictable mild stress (CUMS) for 2 
months. The CUMS mice were intragastrically fed with geniposide at a dose of 10 
ml/kg daily for two consecutive weeks. We monitored the depression-like 
behaviors of the CUMS mice by the forced swimming test (FST) and tail suspension 
test (TST). Then, we measured the cerebral expression of miR-298-5p and NADPH 
oxidase 1 (Nox1) mRNA in the CUMS mice by the RT-qPCR. The targeting 
relationship between miR-298-5p and Nox1 was evaluated by dual-luciferase 
reporter gene assay. The concentrations of adenosine triphosphate (ATP) and 
reactive oxygen species (ROS) were determined by the CellTiter-Glo® and flow 
cytometry, respectively. The mitochondrial membrane potential (MMP) was detected 
using JC-1 staining. Moreover, the expression of inflammatory cytokines (TNF-α, 
IL-1β, IL-6, and TGF-β) was determined by ELISA, RT-qPCR, and western blot 
analysis. We found that miR-298-5p was poorly-expressed while Nox1 was 
highly-expressed in the brain tissues of the CUMS-induced mice. Intriguingly, 
Geniposide treatment reversed the behavioral abnormalities of CUMS mice, 
including shortened immobility time. Geniposide inhibited the Nox1 expression by 
increasing miR-298-5p levels. There were increased ATP content and MMP and 
reduced contents of ROS and inflammatory cytokines in the CUMS mice receiving 
geniposide treatment. Hence, this study revealed an antidepressant effect of 
geniposide on CUMS-induced depression-like behavior in mice by down-regulating 
the miR-298-5p-targeted Nox1. This highlights a novel candidate target for the 
treatment of depression.

Copyright © 2021 Zou, Zhang, Liu, Zhang, Sugimoto and Mei.

DOI: 10.3389/fnmol.2020.00131
PMCID: PMC7886707
PMID: 33613190

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that the research was 
conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial relationships that could 
be construed as a potential conflict of interest.


224. Brain Behav Immun. 2021 May;94:424-436. doi: 10.1016/j.bbi.2021.02.003. Epub
 2021 Feb 16.

Lipidomics reveals that acupuncture modulates the lipid metabolism and 
inflammatory interaction in a mouse model of depression.

Jung J(1), Lee SM(2), Lee MJ(3), Ryu JS(3), Song JH(3), Lee JE(2), Kang G(4), 
Kwon OS(5), Park JY(6).

Author information:
(1)Clinical Medicine Division, Korea Institute of Oriental Medicine, 1672 
Yuseong-daero, Yuseong-gu, Daejeon 34054, Republic of Korea. Electronic address: 
jjy0918@kiom.re.kr.
(2)Clinical Medicine Division, Korea Institute of Oriental Medicine, 1672 
Yuseong-daero, Yuseong-gu, Daejeon 34054, Republic of Korea.
(3)College of Korean Medicine, Daejeon University, 62 Daehak-ro, Dong-gu, 
Daejeon 34520, Republic of Korea.
(4)Clinical Trial Center, Wonkwang University Gwangju Hospital, 1140-23 
Hoejae-ro, Nam-Gu, Gwangju 16729, Republic of Korea.
(5)Department of Meridian and Acupuncture Points, College of Korean Medicine, 
Wonkwang University, Iksan 54538, Republic of Korea.
(6)College of Korean Medicine, Daejeon University, 62 Daehak-ro, Dong-gu, 
Daejeon 34520, Republic of Korea. Electronic address: jypark@dju.kr.

Depression is a serious disease that has considerable impact on lipid metabolism 
and inflammatory responses. Recent studies have shown that leptin, which is well 
known as a mediator of energy homeostasis and is a cytokine in inflammatory 
response, plays an important role in depression. Acupuncture is widely used to 
treat depression; however, the underlying mechanisms and the effect of 
acupuncture on depression remain poorly understood. In this study, we utilized 
the chronic restraint stress (CRS) induced depression model and acupuncture 
treatment was performed at KI10, LR8, LU8, LR4 (AP) or non-acupoint (NP). Then, 
lipidomics was applied to investigate the effects of acupuncture on lipid 
metabolism and analyze leptin signals in the brain and changes of immune 
markers. Acupuncture treatment at AP improved depression-like behavior in an 
open-field test, forced swimming test, and marble burying test. Concurrently, 
CRS mice treated with AP acupuncture (CRS + AP) had significantly lower levels 
of aspartate aminotransaminase (AST, liver injury markers) and exhibited 
different lipid patterns in liver lipidomic profiles. In particular, 
triglycerides (TGs) contributed the change of lipid patterns. Compared to the 
CRS mice, TGs with relatively high degrees of unsaturated fatty acids increased 
in the CRS + AP mice, but did not change in CRS mice treated with NP acupuncture 
(CRS + NP). The levels of leptin in plasma and leptin receptor positive cells in 
the brain (hypothalamus and hippocampus) decreased and increased, respectively, 
in the CRS + AP mice, while opposite patterns were exhibited in the CRS and 
CRS + NP mice. These results indicated that acupuncture treatment at AP 
attenuated leptin insensitivity in CRS mice. Additionally, expression of 
pro-inflammatory cytokines such as interleukin-1 beta and tumor necrosis 
factor-alpha were decreased in the spleen, plasma, and liver of CRS + AP mice, 
which was one of results of alleviation of leptin resistance. In conclusion, 
these results show that AP acupuncture treatment effectively alleviated the 
depression-like behavior, affected immune responses, and altered hepatic lipid 
metabolism through the attenuation of leptin insensitivity.

Copyright © 2021 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.bbi.2021.02.003
PMID: 33607237 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


225. Immunopharmacol Immunotoxicol. 2021 Apr;43(2):212-222. doi: 
10.1080/08923973.2021.1879847. Epub 2021 Feb 15.

Schizandrin ameliorates behavioral disorders in hepatic injury mice via 
regulation of oxidative stress and neuroinflammation.

Yan T(1), Liu B(2), Li F(2), Wu B(1), Xiao F(1), He B(1), Jia Y(1).

Author information:
(1)School of Functional Food and Wine, Shenyang Pharmaceutical University, 
Shenyang, China.
(2)School of Traditional Chinese Materia Medica, Shenyang Pharmaceutical 
University, Shenyang, China.

Aim: The present study was aimed to evaluate the anxiolytic and 
antidepressant-like effects of schizandrin (from Schisandra chinensis (Turcz.) 
Baill. which is a functional food) against chronic liver injury in mice.Methods: 
Chronic liver injury was induced by the treatment of d-galactose (d-GaIN, 
200 mg/kg, s.c.) for 8 weeks.Results: Administration of schizandrin (30 mg/kg, 
i.g.) significantly ameliorated d-GaIN-induced anxiety and depression-like 
behavior as evident from the results of open field test (OFT), sucrose 
preference test (SPT), tail suspension test (TST), forced swimming test (FST), 
novelty-suppressed feeding test (NSFT), and elevated plus maze (EPM) test. In 
addition, schizandrin remarkably reduced the oxidative stress due to its 
potential to enhance the levels of decreased CAT, GSH/GSSG, SOD, and increased 
MDA in peripheral and brain, the antioxidant activities might be related with 
the Nrf2/HO-1 pathway. Furthermore, schizandrin could dramatically inhibit the 
neuroinflammation in mice by reducing pro-inflammatory cytokines (TNF-α, IL-1β, 
and IL-6) through regulating NF-κB/NLRP3/Iba-1 signaling. Besides, the elevated 
levels of ammonia, AST, and ALT were significantly reduced by 
schizandrin.Conclusion: The present data revealed that hyperammonemia produced 
due to liver injury-induced oxidative stress and neuroinflammation in the 
hippocampus and prefrontal cortex resulting in anxiety and depression were 
improved by schizandrin.

DOI: 10.1080/08923973.2021.1879847
PMID: 33588680 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


226. Biomolecules. 2021 Feb 10;11(2):252. doi: 10.3390/biom11020252.

Low-Molecular Weight BDNF Mimetic, Dimeric Dipeptide GSB-106, Reverses 
Depressive Symptoms in Mouse Chronic Social Defeat Stress.

Gudasheva TA(1), Tallerova AV(1), Mezhlumyan AG(1), Antipova TA(2), Logvinov 
IO(2), Firsova YN(1), Povarnina PY(1), Seredenin SB(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicinal Chemistry, V.V. Zakusov Research Institute of 
Pharmacology, Baltijskaya 8, 125315 Moscow, Russia.
(2)Department of Pharmacogenetics, V.V. Zakusov Research Institute of 
Pharmacology, Baltijskaya 8, 125315 Moscow, Russia.

A mimetic of the BDNF loop 4, bis (N-monosuccinyl-L-seryl-L-lysine) 
hexamethylenediamide, named GSB-106, was designed and synthesized in our 
scientific group. The compound activated TrkB, MAPK/ERK, PI3K/AKT, and PLCγ in 
in vitro experiments. In vivo experiments with rodents revealed its 
antidepressant-like activity in the forced swim and the tail suspension tests at 
the dose range of 0.1-5.0 mg/kg (i.p., p.o.). However, GSB-106 was not studied 
in depression models modulating major depression in humans. In the present 
study, the GSB-106 antidepressant-like activity was revealed in mice at the 
depression model induced by 28-day social defeat stress with 21-days oral 
administration (0.1 mg/kg) after stress. At the same time, GSB-106 restored 
reduced locomotor activity and completely eliminated the anhedonia 
manifestations. The compound also restored reduced levels of synaptophysin and 
CREB in the hippocampus. In addition, the Trk receptor antagonist K252A, and the 
PLC inhibitor U73122, were found to completely block the antidepressant-like 
activity of GSB-106 in the forced swimming test in mice. Thus, the present 
results demonstrate the dipeptide BDNF mimetic GSB-106 reversed depressive-like 
behavior and restored hippocampal neuroplasticity in a rodent depression model. 
These effects of GSB-106 are probably regulated by TrkB signaling.

DOI: 10.3390/biom11020252
PMCID: PMC7916338
PMID: 33578683 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


227. Stress. 2021 Nov;24(6):857-865. doi: 10.1080/10253890.2021.1871600. Epub
2021  Feb 1.

Sex- and stress-dependent effects of a single injection of ketamine on open 
field and forced swim behavior.

Fitzgerald PJ(1), Kounelis-Wuillaume SK(2), Gheidi A(1), Morrow JD(1), 
Spencer-Segal JL(2)(3), Watson BO(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychiatry, Michigan Medicine, University of Michigan, Ann 
Arbor, MI, USA.
(2)Michigan Neuroscience Institute, Michigan Medicine, University of Michigan, 
Ann Arbor, MI, USA.
(3)Department of Internal Medicine, Michigan Medicine, University of Michigan, 
Ann Arbor, MI, USA.

Ketamine has emerged as a novel treatment for common psychiatric conditions such 
as Major Depressive Disorder (MDD) and anxiety disorders, many of which can be 
initiated and exacerbated by psychological stress. Sex differences in the 
frequency of both anxiety and depressive disorders are well known and could be 
due to sex differences in neuroendocrine responses to stress. Ketamine is known 
to modulate the hormonal response to stress, specifically corticosterone. It is 
not clear if the acute effect of ketamine on corticosterone differs by sex, or 
what role this could play in subsequent behavior. Here we test whether a single 
injection of (R,S)-ketamine (30 mg/kg, i.p.), administered either with or 
without unpredictable chronic stress (UCS), has different sustained effects on 
open field test (OFT), elevated zero maze (EZM) or forced swim test (FST) 
behavior in female versus male C57BL/6J mice. In the OFT (24 h post-injection), 
ketamine increased center square exploration in males but not females. In 
contrast, in the FST (72 h post-injection), females showed a trend toward a 
decrease in immobility after ketamine whereas males were not strongly modulated. 
These behavioral effects of ketamine were stronger in the presence of UCS than 
in unstressed animals. UCS animals also showed lower corticosterone after 
injection than unstressed animals, and in the presence of UCS ketamine increased 
corticosterone; these effects were similar in both sexes. Corticosterone 
post-injection did not predict subsequent behavior. These findings complement a 
growing preclinical literature suggesting both stress-dependency and sex 
differences in OFT and FST behavioral responses to ketamine.LAY SUMMARYIn 
humans, it is known that major depression and anxiety disorders, which can be 
caused or made worse by exposure to psychological stress, occur roughly twice as 
frequently in women than in men, but the underpinnings of these effects are not 
well characterized. In the current study, we explored how sex interacts with 
stress and ketamine (a rapidly acting antidepressant) by assessing both open 
field and forced swim behavior in mice after chronic mild stress. We report the 
novel finding that male mice exhibit greater exploration of the aversive center 
square in the open field after ketamine, whereas females trended toward lower 
immobility (often interpreted as an antidepressant-like effect) in the forced 
swim test after this drug, and these effects were amplified by prior stress 
exposure.

DOI: 10.1080/10253890.2021.1871600
PMCID: PMC8325703
PMID: 33517825 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: DECLARATION OF INTEREST The authors have no 
financial conflicts of interest.


228. Heliyon. 2021 Jan 11;7(1):e05900. doi: 10.1016/j.heliyon.2021.e05900. 
eCollection 2021 Jan.

Melatonin attenuated the behavioral despair induced by acute neurogenic stress 
through blockade of N-methyl D-aspartate receptors in mice.

Hajmirzaeyian A(1)(2), Chamanara M(2), Rashidian A(1), Shakyba S(1)(2), 
Nassireslami E(2), Akhavan-Sigari R(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmacology, School of Medicine, Tehran University of Medical 
Sciences, Tehran, Iran.
(2)Department of Pharmacology, School of Medicine, AJA University of Medical 
Sciences, Tehran, Iran.
(3)Department of Neurosurgery, University Medical Center Tuebingen, Germany.

It has been well documented that administration of melatonin could reveal 
antidepressant-like effect in rodents. However, the protective effect of 
melatonin on stress-induced depression/anxiety and its underlying mechanism is 
yet to be understood. In this regard, in the current study, acute foot-shock 
stress (FSS) was used to evaluate the antidepressant-like effect of melatonin on 
neurogenic stress-induced depression in mice. Behavioral evaluation was done by 
using the forced swimming test (FST) and Open-field test (OFT). Melatonin, 
MK-801, and ketamine (NMDA receptor antagonists), and NMDA (NMDA receptor 
agonist) were used to elucidate any association between melatonin and NMDA 
pathway in behavioral despair induced by acute-FSS. Applying acute-FSS to mice 
significantly induced depressant-like behavior in FST without any significant 
impact on locomotor activity in the OFT. We observed that melatonin 
(dose-dependently) significantly improved the depressant-like effect of FSS, but 
it did not impact the locomotion in animals. Acute injection of MK-801 at 
sub-effective doses (0.01 mg/kg) or ketamine (0.1 mg/kg) potentiated the 
antidepressant-like effect of a sub-effective dose of melatonin. However, the 
sub-effective dose of NMDA (30 mg/kg) abolished the protective effect of 
melatonin on the behavioral profile of stressed animals. Our results could 
reflect the antidepressant-like effect of melatonin on neurogenic stress-induced 
depressive behaviors in mice. Also, our results showed that NMDA receptors could 
be involved in the antidepressant-like effect of melatonin.

© 2021 The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1016/j.heliyon.2021.e05900
PMCID: PMC7810776
PMID: 33490672

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


229. Int J Mol Sci. 2021 Jan 19;22(2):937. doi: 10.3390/ijms22020937.

Learned Immobility Produces Enduring Impairment of the HPA Axis Reactivity in 
Mice without Replicating the Broad Spectrum of Depressive-Like Phenotype.

Bullich S(1), Delcourte S(2), Haddjeri N(2), Guiard BP(1).

Author information:
(1)Centre de Recherches sur la Cognition Animale (CRCA), Centre de Biologie 
Intégrative (CBI), Université de Toulouse, CNRS UMR5169, UPS, 31062 Toulouse, 
France.
(2)INSERM, Stem Cell and Brain Research Institute U1208, University of Lyon, 
Université Claude Bernard Lyon 1, 69500 Bron, France.

The forced swim stress test (FST) is widely used for screening pharmacological 
or non-pharmacological strategies with potential antidepressant activities. 
Recent data have suggested that repeated FST for five consecutive days (i.e., 
5d-RFSS) could be used to generate a robust depressive-like phenotype in mice. 
However, the face, construct, and predictive validities of 5d-RFSS have been 
recently challenged. This study took advantage of recent findings showing that 
mice vulnerability to anxiety is enhanced when animals are stressed during the 
dark phase, to provide new insight into the relevance of this model. Our results 
showed a progressive increase in time of immobility in 5d-RFSS mice relative to 
control non-stressed animals (sham). Three weeks later, we noticed that 5d-RFSS 
mice injected with the vehicle compound (Veh) still exhibited a high level of 
immobility in the FST whereas this behavior was reversed by the antidepressant 
drug amitriptyline (AMI). However, 5d-RFSS/Veh and 5d-RFSS mice/AMI mice showed 
normal performances in the open field, the novelty suppressed feeding and the 
tail suspension tests. Despite this lack of generalized behavioral deficits, an 
impairment of different parameters characterizing the 
hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis reactivity was evidenced in 5d-RFSS 
mice/Veh but not in 5d-RFSS mice/AMI. Despite anomalies in the HPA axis, the 
activity of the central serotonergic system remained unaffected in 5d-RFSS mice 
relative to controls. From our results, it is suggested that learned immobility 
does not replicate the broad spectrum of depressive symptoms observed in other 
chronic models of depression such as the unpredictable chronic mild stress 
(UCMS) model, the chronic social defeat stress (CSDS) model or chronic 
corticosterone (CORT) exposure but its influence on the HPA axis is remarkable. 
Further experiments are warranted to makes this model suitable for modelling 
depression and therefore refine its translational applicability.

DOI: 10.3390/ijms22020937
PMCID: PMC7832836
PMID: 33477830 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no competing financial 
interest.


230. Eur Neuropsychopharmacol. 2021 Mar;44:51-65. doi: 
10.1016/j.euroneuro.2020.12.012. Epub 2021 Jan 12.

Primary role for melatonin MT(2) receptors in the regulation of anhedonia and 
circadian temperature rhythm.

Belloch FB(1), Beltrán E(1), Venzala E(1), Montalt-Tordera J(2), Diaz-Perdigón 
T(1), Cecon E(3), Puerta E(1), Delagrange P(4), Tordera RM(5).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmacology and Toxicology, University of Navarra, Pamplona 
31080, Spain.
(2)School of Industrial Engineering, Polytechnic University of Valencia, Spain.
(3)Université de Paris, Institut Cochin, CNRS, INSERM, Paris F-75014, France.
(4)Institut de Recherches Servier, Croissy sur Seine, France.
(5)Department of Pharmacology and Toxicology, University of Navarra, Pamplona 
31080, Spain. Electronic address: rtordera@unav.es.

Circadian rhythms disturbance is widely observable in patients with major 
depression (MD) and is also associated with depression vulnerability. Of them, 
disturbed melatonin secretion rhythm is particularly relevant to MD and is 
strongly phase-locked to core body temperature (CBT) rhythm. Here we aim to 
study the specific role of each melatonin receptor (MT1 and MT2) subtype in 
melatonin regulation of circadian CBT and its possible relationship with 
depressive-like behaviors. MT1-/- , MT2-/- and WT (C57BL/6) mice were used.  
Anhedonia, using the sucrose intake test, circadian CBT, environmental place 
preference (EPP) conditioning and vulnerability to chronic social defeat stress 
(CSDS) procedure were studied. Moreover, the antidepressant effects of 
reboxetine (15 mg/kg/day, i.p.) for three weeks or ketamine (15 mg/kg i.p. every 
four days, 4 doses in total) were studied. Further, exposure to ultra-mild 
stress induced by individual housing for several weeks was also studied in these 
mice. MT2-/- mice showed anhedonia and lower CBT compared to WT and MT1-/-. In 
addition, while reward exposure raised nocturnal CBT in WT this increase did not 
take place in MT2-/- mice. Further, MT2-/- mice showed an enhanced vulnerability 
to stress-induced anhedonia and social avoidance as well as an impaired 
acquisition of novelty seeking behavior. Both reboxetine and ketamine reverted 
anhedonia and induced a clear anti-helpless behavior in the tail suspension test 
(TST). Reboxetine raised CBT in mice and reverted ultra-mild stress-induced 
anhedonia. Our findings show a primary role for MT2 receptors in the regulation 
of circadian CBT as well as anhedonia and suggest that these receptors could be 
involved in depressive disorders associated to disturbed melatonin function.

Copyright © 2021. Published by Elsevier B.V.

DOI: 10.1016/j.euroneuro.2020.12.012
PMID: 33451856 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of Competing Interest All the 
authors declare no conflict of interest.


231. Pain. 2021 Jun 1;162(6):1705-1721. doi: 10.1097/j.pain.0000000000002179.

Long-term inflammatory pain does not impact exploratory behavior and stress 
coping strategies in mice.

Burek DJ(1)(2)(3), Massaly N(1)(3), Doering M(4), Zec A(1)(3), Gaelen J(1)(3), 
Morón JA(1)(2)(3)(5).

Author information:
(1)Departments of Anesthesiology and.
(2)Neuroscience, Washington University in St. Louis, St. Louis, MO, United 
States.
(3)Washington University Pain Center Basic Research Division, St. Louis, MO, 
United States.
(4)Bernard Becker Medical Library, Washington University School of Medicine, St. 
Louis, MO, United States.
(5)Department of Psychiatry, Washington University in St. Louis, St. Louis, MO, 
United States.

Pain puts patients at risk for developing psychiatric conditions such as anxiety 
and depression. Preclinical mouse models of pain-induced affective behavior vary 
widely in methodology and results, impairing progress towards improved 
therapeutics. To systematically investigate the effect of long-term inflammatory 
pain on exploratory behavior and stress coping strategy, we assessed male 
C57BL/6J mice in the forced swim test (FST), elevated zero maze, and open field 
test at 4 and 6 weeks postinjection of Complete Freund's Adjuvant, while 
controlling for testing order and combination. Inflammatory pain did not induce 
a passive stress coping strategy in the FST and did not reduce exploratory 
behavior in the elevated zero maze or the open field test. Using systematic 
correlational analysis and composite behavioral scores, we found no consistent 
association among measures for mice with or without inflammatory pain. A 
meta-analysis of similar studies indicated a modest, significant effect of 
Complete Freund's Adjuvant on exploratory behavior, but not immobility in the 
FST, and high heterogeneity among effect sizes in all 3 paradigms. Given the 
urgency for understanding the mechanisms of pain comorbidities and identifying 
novel therapies, these findings support the reallocation of our limited 
resources away from such unreliable assays and toward motivated and naturalistic 
behaviors. Future studies in pain and psychiatric translational research may 
benefit by considering outcomes beyond binary categorization, quantifying the 
associations between multiple measured behaviors, and agnostically identifying 
subtle yet meaningful patterns in behaviors.

Copyright © 2021 International Association for the Study of Pain.

DOI: 10.1097/j.pain.0000000000002179
PMCID: PMC8119306
PMID: 33433146 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


232. Metab Brain Dis. 2021 Mar;36(3):437-446. doi: 10.1007/s11011-020-00658-4.
Epub  2021 Jan 4.

Ursolic acid abrogates depressive-like behavior and hippocampal pro-apoptotic 
imbalance induced by chronic unpredictable stress.

Colla ARS(1), Pazini FL(1), Lieberknecht V(1), Camargo A(1), Rodrigues ALS(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Biochemistry, Center of Biological Sciences, Universidade 
Federal de Santa Catarina, Florianópolis, 88040-900, SC, Brazil.
(2)Department of Biochemistry, Center of Biological Sciences, Universidade 
Federal de Santa Catarina, Florianópolis, 88040-900, SC, Brazil. 
alsrodri@gmail.com.

Emerging evidence has shown that ursolic acid exerts antidepressant-like 
effects, however, its ability to elicit an antidepressant-like response in 
rodents subjected to stress model that mimics behavioral and neurochemical 
alterations found in depression remains to be determined. Thus, this study 
investigated the possible antidepressant-like effect of ursolic acid in mice 
subjected to chronic unpredictable stress (CUS) for 14 days, and whether this 
effect could be associated with the modulation of serum corticosterone levels 
and hippocampal Bcl-2/Bax mRNA expression. Our results indicated that CUS 
induced a depressive-like behavior, as demonstrated by an increase in the 
immobility time and latency to first grooming in the tail suspension test and 
splash test, respectively. Conversely, the repeated administration of ursolic 
acid (0.1 mg/kg, p.o.) or fluoxetine (10 mg/kg, p.o.) in the last 7 days of CUS 
completely prevented CUS-induced behavioral alterations, suggesting an 
antidepressant-like effect. Additionally, CUS significantly increased the mRNA 
expression of Bax (pro-apoptosis marker), but not Bcl-2 (anti-apoptosis marker) 
in the hippocampus. Moreover, reduced hippocampal mRNA expression of Bcl-2/Bax 
ratio was detected in CUS-exposed mice. Ursolic acid, but not fluoxetine, 
prevented CUS-induced increase in the expression of Bax, but both ursolic acid 
and fluoxetine prevented CUS-induced reduction on Bcl-2/Bax ratio. Furthermore, 
neither CUS nor treatments with ursolic acid or fluoxetine altered serum 
corticosterone levels. Our study unveils the ability of ursolic acid to prevent 
the depressive-like behavior induced by stress and the modulation of Bcl-2/Bax 
expression could be associated with this response.

DOI: 10.1007/s11011-020-00658-4
PMID: 33394285 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


233. Neurochem Res. 2021 Mar;46(3):660-674. doi: 10.1007/s11064-020-03200-1. Epub
 2021 Jan 3.

The Antidepressant Effects of Resveratrol are Accompanied by the Attenuation of 
Dendrite/Dendritic Spine Loss and the Upregulation of BDNF/p-cofilin1 Levels in 
Chronic Restraint Mice.

Chen JJ(1), Shen JX(1), Yu ZH(1), Pan C(1), Han F(1), Zhu XL(1)(2), Xu H(1)(3), 
Xu RT(1), Wei TY(1), Lu YP(4).

Author information:
(1)College of Life Science, Anhui Normal University, No. 1 Beijing East Road, 
Wuhu, 241000, China.
(2)Department of Anatomy, Wannan Medical College, No. 22 Wenchang West Road, 
Wuhu, 241002, China.
(3)Anhui College of Traditional Chinese Medicine, No. 18 Wuxiashan West Road, 
Wuhu, 241002, China.
(4)College of Life Science, Anhui Normal University, No. 1 Beijing East Road, 
Wuhu, 241000, China. yapinglu@ahnu.edu.cn.

Depression afflicts more than 300 million people worldwide, but there is 
currently no universally effective drug in clinical practice. In this study, 
chronic restraint stress (CRS)-induced mice depression model was used to study 
the antidepressant effects of resveratrol and its mechanism. Our results showed 
that resveratrol significantly attenuated depression-like behavior in mice. 
Consistent with behavioral changes, resveratrol significantly attenuated 
CRS-induced reduction in the density of dendrites and dendritic spines in both 
hippocampus and medial prefrontal cortex (mPFC). Meanwhile, in hippocampus and 
mPFC, resveratrol consistently alleviated CRS-induced cofilin1 activation by 
increasing its ser3 phosphorylation. In addition, cofilin1 immunofluorescence 
distribution in neuronal inner peri-membrane in controls, and cofilin1 diffusely 
distribution in the cytoplasm in CRS group were common in hippocampus. However, 
the distribution of cofilin1 in mPFC was reversed. Pearson's correlation 
analysis revealed that there was a significant positive correlation found 
between the sucrose consumption in sucrose preference test and the dendrite 
density in multiple sub-regions of hippocampus and mPFC, and a significant 
negative correlation between the immobility time in tail suspension test and the 
dendrite/dendritic spine density in several different areas of hippocampus and 
mPFC. P-cofilin1 was significantly positively correlated with the overall 
dendritic spine density in mPFC as well as with the overall dendrite density or 
BDNF in the hippocampus. Our results suggest that the BDNF/cofilin1 pathway, in 
which cofilin1 may be activated in a brain-specific manner, was involved in 
resveratrol's attenuating the dendrite and dendritic spine loss and behavioral 
abnormality.

DOI: 10.1007/s11064-020-03200-1
PMID: 33392910 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


234. Zhongguo Zhong Yao Za Zhi. 2020 Oct;45(20):4971-4977. doi: 
10.19540/j.cnki.cjcmm.20200603.402.

[Effect of Puyu Capsules on behavior,HPA axis and CREB-BDNF pathway expression 
in hippocampus of depressed mice].

[Article in Chinese]

Yu-Lu W(1), Meng LU(2), Yue-Yue W(3), Ru J(1), Yan C(1), Shu-Ling Z(1), Yu L(1).

Author information:
(1)College of Pharmacy, Fujian University of Traditional Chinese Medicine Fuzhou 
350122, China.
(2)College of Pharmacy, Henan University of Traditional Chinese Medicine 
Zhengzhou 450046, China.
(3)Department of Endocrinology, the First Affiliated Hospital of Nanjing Medical 
University Nanjing 210029, China.

This study aimed to investigate the antidepressant effects of Puyu Capsules and 
its potential mechanism. The antidepressant activity of Puyu Capsules was 
evaluated by forced swimming test(FST) and tail suspension test(TST) after 
subchronic administration in mice. Next, the mice were subjected to a chronic 
unpredictable stress(CUS) protocol for a period of 28 d to induce 
depressive-like behaviors. Then, a sucrose preference test, open-field test and 
novelty-suppressed feeding test were performed to evaluate the antidepressant 
effect of Puyu Capsules. After the behavioral test, the adrenal index was 
calculated; the levels of serum corticosterone(CORT) and adrenocorticotropic 
hormone(ACTH) were detected by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay(ELISA); the 
levels of glucocorticoid receptor(GR), protein expression of brain-derived 
neurotrophic factor(BDNF), and the ratio of phosphorylated cAMP response element 
binding protein(CREB) to total CREB were detected by Western blot to explore the 
antidepressant function and mechanism of Puyu Capsules. The results suggested 
that Puyu Capsules had significant antidepressant effects on both the depression 
model and CUS model. At the same time, the drug could prevent the change of 
adrenal index induced by CUS and reverse the abnormal activation of CORT and 
ACTH in the serum of depressed mice. Finally, Puyu Capsules could also reverse 
the lower expression of pCREB, BDNF and GR in the hippocampus of CUS mice. In 
conclusion, Puyu Capsules produced significant antidepressant effects, and the 
mechanism was closely related to hypothalamic pituitary adrenal(HPA) axis 
activity, GR and CREB-BDNF pathway expression.

DOI: 10.19540/j.cnki.cjcmm.20200603.402
PMID: 33350271 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


235. Front Behav Neurosci. 2020 Nov 12;14:600766. doi: 10.3389/fnbeh.2020.600766.
 eCollection 2020.

Maternal Separation Combined With Limited Bedding Increases Anxiety-Like 
Behavior and Alters Hypothalamic-Pituitary-Adrenal Axis Function of Male BALB/cJ 
Mice.

Orso R(1)(2), Creutzberg KC(3), Kestering-Ferreira E(1)(2), Wearick-Silva 
LE(1)(2), Tractenberg SG(1)(2), Grassi-Oliveira R(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Developmental Cognitive Neuroscience Lab (DCNL), Pontifical Catholic 
University of Rio Grande do Sul (PUCRS), Porto Alegre, Brazil.
(2)Brain Institute (InsCer), Pontifical Catholic University of Rio Grande do Sul 
(PUCRS), Porto Alegre, Brazil.
(3)Department of Pharmacological and Biomolecular Sciences, University of Milan, 
Milan, Italy.

Early life stress (ELS) is considered a risk factor for the development of 
psychiatric conditions, including depression and anxiety disorder. Individuals 
that live in adverse environments are usually exposed to multiple stressors 
simultaneously, such as maternal neglect, maltreatment, and limited resources. 
Nevertheless, most pre-clinical ELS models are designed to explore the impact of 
these events separately. For this reason, this study aims to investigate the 
effects of a combined model of ELS on anxiety-like behavior and 
hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis related targets. From PND 2 to PND 15 
BALB/cJ mice were exposed simultaneously to maternal separation (MS; 3 h per 
day) and limited bedding (LB; ELS group) or left undisturbed (CT group). 
Maternal behavior was recorded in intercalated days, from PND 1 to PND 9. Male 
offspring were tested for anxiety-like behavior from PND 53 to PND 55 in the 
open field test (OF), elevated plus-maze (EPM), and light/dark test (LD). After 
behavioral testing, animals were euthanized, and glucocorticoid receptor 
(Nr3c1), corticotrophin-releasing hormone (Crh), and its receptor type 1 (Crhr1) 
gene expression in the hypothalamus were measured. Moreover, plasma 
corticosterone levels were analyzed. We observed that ELS dams presented altered 
quality of maternal care, characterized by a decrease in arched-back nursing, 
and an increase in passive nursing. Stressed dams also showed an increase in the 
number of exits from the nest when compared to CT dams. Furthermore, ELS animals 
showed increased anxiety-like behavior in the OF, EPM, and LD. Regarding gene 
expression, we identified an increase in hypothalamus Crh levels of ELS group 
when compared to CT animals, while no differences in Nr3c1 and Crhr1 expression 
were observed. Finally, stressed animals showed decreased levels of plasma 
corticosterone when compared to the CT group. In conclusion, we observed an 
alteration in maternal behavior in ELS dams. Later in life, animals exposed to 
the combined model of ELS showed increased levels of anxiety-like behavior. 
Moreover, the central and peripheral HPA measures observed could indicate a 
dysregulation in HPA function provoked by ELS exposure.

Copyright © 2020 Orso, Creutzberg, Kestering-Ferreira, Wearick-Silva, 
Tractenberg and Grassi-Oliveira.

DOI: 10.3389/fnbeh.2020.600766
PMCID: PMC7693708
PMID: 33304248


236. Food Technol Biotechnol. 2020 Sep;58(3):295-302. doi: 
10.17113/ftb.58.03.20.6568.

Evaluation of the Antidepressant Effect of the Functional Beverage Containing 
Active Peptides, Menthol and Eleutheroside and Investigation of Its Mechanism of 
Action in Mice.

Qi Y(1), Zhang H(1), Liang S(1), Chen J(2), Yan X(1), Duan Z(1), Zhou D(1), Li 
Z(1).

Author information:
(1)College of Food Science and Engineering, Northwest A&F University, 22 Xinong 
Road, 712100 Yangling, PR China.
(2)Department of Food Science, University of Tennessee, 2510 River Dr, TN 37996 
Knoxville, USA.

RESEARCH BACKGROUND: Depression has become a global threat to human health. In 
order to solve it, researchers have conducted multi-faceted studies including 
diet. Many food-derived bioactive substances have shown antidepressant effects. 
However, there are few studies on the design of industrialized food with 
antidepressant effect. This study aims to evaluate the antidepressant effect of 
a functional beverage made from several ingredients with potential 
antidepressant function and investigate its antidepressant mechanisms.
EXPERIMENTAL APPROACH: The beverage consists of peppermint oil, active peptides 
derived from bovine milk casein and Acanthopanax senticosus extract (ASE) whose 
active ingredient is eleutheroside. Different amounts of ASE were evaluated to 
determine the optimal concentration of eleutheroside in this functional beverage 
to deliver the best antidepressant effect through extensive behavioral testing, 
including preliminary acute stress experiments and further chronic unpredictable 
mild stress test.
RESULTS AND CONCLUSIONS: The results demonstrated that the beverage with 15 
mg/kg of eleutheroside could significantly reduce the mice's immobility time of 
tail suspension test and forced swimming test, recover mice's sucrose preference 
and behavior changes in the open field test, improve the contents of dopamine, 
norepinephrine, 5-hydroxytryptamine and the activity of superoxide dismutase and 
reduce the content of malondialdehyde in mice's brains, which indicated that the 
improvement of monoamine neurotransmitter systems and antioxidation was one 
potential mechanism of antidepressant action.
NOVELTY AND SCIENTIFIC CONTRIBUTION: This study provides a design of 
antidepressant functional beverage and an efficient way for the prevention and 
treatment of depression.

DOI: 10.17113/ftb.58.03.20.6568
PMCID: PMC7709459
PMID: 33281485

Conflict of interest statement: CONFLICT OF INTEREST There are no conflicts of 
interest.


237. Eur J Pharmacol. 2021 Jan 15;891:173768. doi: 10.1016/j.ejphar.2020.173768.
Epub  2020 Dec 1.

Phosphodiesterase-2 inhibitor reverses post-traumatic stress induced fear memory 
deficits and behavioral changes via cAMP/cGMP pathway.

Chen L(1), Liu K(2), Wang Y(3), Liu N(4), Yao M(5), Hu J(6), Wang G(7), Sun 
Y(8), Pan J(9).

Author information:
(1)Department of Clinical Pharmacology, Key Laboratory of Clinical Cancer 
Pharmacology and Toxicology Research of Zhejiang Province, Affiliated Hangzhou 
First People's Hospital, Zhejiang University School of Medicine, Hangzhou, 
Zhejiang, 310006, PR China; Brain Institute, School of Pharmacy, Wenzhou Medical 
University, Wenzhou, Zhejiang Province, China.
(2)Brain Institute, School of Pharmacy, Wenzhou Medical University, Wenzhou, 
Zhejiang Province, China.
(3)College of Pharmacy, Fujian University of Traditional Chinese Medicine, 
Fuzhou, China.
(4)Department of Traditional Medical Orthopedics, Honghui Hospital, Xi'an 
Jiaotong University, Xi'an, Shanxi, China.
(5)Department of Orthopedics, The People's Hospital of Yichun City, Yichun, 
Jiangxi Province, China.
(6)Department of Anesthesiology, Shanghai Minhang TCM Hospital, Shanghai, China.
(7)Department of Clinical Pharmacology, Key Laboratory of Clinical Cancer 
Pharmacology and Toxicology Research of Zhejiang Province, Affiliated Hangzhou 
First People's Hospital, Zhejiang University School of Medicine, Hangzhou, 
Zhejiang, 310006, PR China. Electronic address: wanggang_syyy@163.com.
(8)Department of Traditional Medical Orthopedics, Honghui Hospital, Xi'an 
Jiaotong University, Xi'an, Shanxi, China. Electronic address: xahhsyd@126.com.
(9)Brain Institute, School of Pharmacy, Wenzhou Medical University, Wenzhou, 
Zhejiang Province, China. Electronic address: wenzhoupan2003@yahoo.com.cn.

Phosphodiesterase 2 is one of the phosphodiesterase (PDEs) family members that 
regulate cyclic nucleotide (namely cAMP and cGMP) concentrations. The present 
study determined whether PDE2 inhibition could rescue post-traumatic stress 
disorder (PTSD)-like symptoms. Mice were subjected to single prolonged stress 
(SPS) and treated with selective PDE2 inhibitor Bay 60-7550 (0.3, 1, or 3 mg/kg, 
i.p.). The behavioral tests such as forced swimming, sucrose preference test, 
open field, elevated plus maze, and contextual fear paradigm were conducted to 
determine the effects of Bay 60-7550 on SPS-induced depression- and anxiety-like 
behavior and fear memory deficits. The results suggested that Bay 60-7550 
reversed SPS-induced depression- and anxiety-like behavior and fear memory 
deficits. Moreover, Bay 60-7550 prevented SPS-induced changes in the adrenal 
gland index, synaptic proteins synaptophysin and PSD95 expression, PKA, PKG, 
pCREB, and BDNF levels in the hippocampus and amygdala. These effects were 
completely prevented by PKG inhibitor KT5823. While PKA inhibitor H89 also 
prevented Bay 60-7550-induced pCREB and BDNF expression, but only partially 
prevented the effects on PSD95 expression in the hippocampus. These findings 
suggest that Bay 60-7550 protects mice against PTSD-like stress induced 
traumatic injury by activation of cGMP- or cAMP-related neuroprotective 
molecules, such as synaptic proteins, pCREB and BDNF.

Copyright © 2020 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ejphar.2020.173768
PMID: 33271150 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


238. Environ Toxicol. 2021 Apr;36(4):694-706. doi: 10.1002/tox.23073. Epub 2020
Dec  3.

Nootkatone improves anxiety- and depression-like behavior by targeting 
hyperammonemia-induced oxidative stress in D-galactosamine model of liver 
injury.

Yan T(1), Li F(2), Xiong W(2), Wu B(1), Xiao F(1), He B(1), Jia Y(1).

Author information:
(1)School of Functional Food and Wine, Shenyang Pharmaceutical University, 
Shenyang, China.
(2)School of Traditional Chinese Materia Medica, Shenyang Pharmaceutical 
University, Shenyang, China.

Acute or chronic liver injury is closely related to hyperammonemia, which will 
result in oxidative stress and damage to nerve cells, and these factors are 
vital to the development of anxiety and depression. In this study, the effect of 
Nootkatone (NKT) on the anxiety- and depression-like behavioral changes in mice 
induced by liver injury was investigated. Liver injury was induced by 
D-galactosamine (D-GalN; 350 mg/kg) three times a week for 4 weeks. NKT (5 mg/kg 
or 10 mg/kg) was given as co-treatment daily for 4 weeks. NKT (5 mg/kg) 
co-treatment remarkably ameliorates D-GalN-induced anxiety- and depression-like 
behaviors as evident from the results of sucrose preference test, forced 
swimming test, tail suspension test, and novelty suppressed feeding test. 
Results showed that NKT could induce an elevation in serum alanine transaminase 
and aspartate transaminase level, alleviate the oxidative stress induced by 
hyperammonemia through activating Keap1/Nrf2/HO-1 antioxidant pathways, decrease 
the expression of inducible nitric oxide synthase and NOX2 in hippocampus and 
prefrontal cortex, enhance the vitality of superoxide dismutase, catalase, and 
glutathione levels in serum, liver, and brain, and significantly reduce the 
generation of malondialdehyde. At the same time, NKT also reduces the level of 
ammonia in serum and brain and upgrades the activity of glutamine synthetase in 
the hippocampus and prefrontal cortex. Taken together, the present results 
suggested that NKT has a significant antidepressant effect through modulation of 
oxidative stress induced by D-GalN administration.

© 2020 Wiley Periodicals LLC.

DOI: 10.1002/tox.23073
PMID: 33270352 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


239. Foods. 2020 Nov 16;9(11):1673. doi: 10.3390/foods9111673.

Increasing γ-Aminobutyric Acid Content in Vegetable Soybeans via High-Pressure 
Processing and Efficacy of Their Antidepressant-Like Activity in Mice.

Wu SJ(1), Chang CY(1), Lai YT(1), Shyu YT(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Horticulture and Landscape Architecture, National Taiwan 
University, No. 1, Section 4, Roosevelt Road, Taipei 10617, Taiwan.

This study applied high-pressure processing (HPP) technology to enrich the gamma 
aminobutyric acid (GABA) content in vegetable soybeans and evaluated its 
antidepressant efficacy on mice, with depression induced by the unpredictable 
chronic mild stress (UCMS) model. The optimal conditions for HPP, storage time, 
and storage temperature, as well as antidepressant-like effects of vegetable 
soybeans, were evaluated and discussed. HPP could effectively and significantly 
increase GABA content in soybean, with optimum conditions at 200 MPa. The GABA 
content in the whole vegetable soybean was 436.05 mg/100 g. In mice animal 
tests, the tail suspension test (TST) showed that the immobility time of the 
GABA group was significantly shorter than that of the control group. The total 
travel distance in the open field test (OFT) showed that depressed mice fed with 
the GABA feed exhibited exploratory behavior. The GABA group showed a 
significantly higher degree of sucrose preference than the control group. Both 
results indicate that the GABA feed could effectively alleviate depressive 
symptomatology. Regarding biochemical parameters, the fecal and serum 
corticosterone (CORT) levels in the control group increased to 104.86 pg/mg 
after the onset of depression. In contrast, the fecal CORT level in the GABA 
group was significantly reduced to 23.98 pg/mg and was comparable to that in the 
control group (33.38 pg/mg). Reduced serum CORT level in the GABA group suggests 
an improvement in depressive symptomatology. The serotonin concentration was 
maintained in the GABA group after the induction of depression, suggesting its 
preventive activity. The HPP GABA-enriched soybeans exerted modulatory effects 
on the behaviors of depressed mice and displayed a potential for 
commercialization.

DOI: 10.3390/foods9111673
PMCID: PMC7696959
PMID: 33207592

Conflict of interest statement: This manuscript has not been published or 
presented elsewhere in part or entirety and is not under consideration by 
another journal. All the authors have approved the manuscript and agree with 
submission to your esteemed journal. There are no conflict of interest to 
declare.


240. Behav Brain Res. 2021 Feb 5;399:113001. doi: 10.1016/j.bbr.2020.113001. Epub
 2020 Nov 13.

Chronic sleep disruption induces depression-like behavior in adolescent male and 
female mice and sensitization of the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal axis in 
adolescent female mice.

Murack M(1), Chandrasegaram R(2), Smith KB(1), Ah-Yen EG(1), Rheaume É(1), 
Malette-Guyon É(1), Nanji Z(1), Semchishen SN(3), Latus O(1), Messier C(4), 
Ismail N(5).

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychology, University of Ottawa, Ottawa, Ontario, Canada.
(2)Cardiff University, Cardiff, UK.
(3)Simon Fraser University, Burnaby, British Columbia, Canada.
(4)Department of Psychology, University of Ottawa, Ottawa, Ontario, Canada; 
University of Ottawa Brain and Mind Research Institute, Ottawa, Canada.
(5)Department of Psychology, University of Ottawa, Ottawa, Ontario, Canada; 
University of Ottawa Brain and Mind Research Institute, Ottawa, Canada. 
Electronic address: nafissa.ismail@uottawa.ca.

Depression is a prevalent mood disorder responsible for reduced quality of life 
for over 264 million people. Depression commonly develops during adolescence and 
becomes twice as prevalent in females than in males. However, the mechanisms 
underlying adolescent depression onset and sex differences in the prevalence 
rate remain unclear. Adolescent exposure to stress and subsequent sensitization 
of the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis contributes to mood disorder 
development, and females are particularly vulnerable to HPA sensitization. 
Repeated exposure to stressors common to adolescent development, like sleep 
disruption, could partially be responsible for adolescent female susceptibility 
to depression. To address this possibility, 80 adolescent and adult CD-1 mice 
(Male, n = 40; Female, n = 40) were manually sleep disrupted for the first four 
hours of each rest cycle or allowed normal rest for eight consecutive days. 
Depression-like behavior was assessed with the forced swim test. 5-HT1A and 
glucocorticoid receptor expression and concurrent cellular activation via 
glucocorticoid receptor/c-Fos colocalization were examined in various brain 
regions to assess cellular correlates of depression and HPA-axis activation. 
Both adolescent male and female mice displayed significantly greater 
depression-like behavior and prelimbic c-Fos expression after chronic sleep 
disruption than non-sleep disrupted adolescent and sleep disrupted adult 
counterparts. However, sleep disrupted adolescent females demonstrated greater 
dorsal raphe 5-HT1A expression than sleep disrupted adolescent males. Adolescent 
females and males had decreased medial prefrontal 5-HT1A expression after 
chronic sleep disruption, but only adolescent females expressed decreased 
hippocampal 5-HT1A expression compared to controls. Chronic sleep disruption 
significantly increased corticosterone release, glucocorticoid expression in the 
CA1, and activation of glucocorticoid immunoreactive cells in the prelimbic 
cortex of adolescent females but not in adolescent males. These findings suggest 
that chronic sleep disruption during adolescence could give rise to depressive 
symptoms in male and female adolescents through differing signaling mechanisms.

Copyright © 2020 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.bbr.2020.113001
PMID: 33197456 [Indexed for MEDLINE]241. Front Behav Neurosci. 2020 Aug 27;14:140. doi: 10.3389/fnbeh.2020.00140. 
eCollection 2020.

Short- and Long-Term Repeated Forced Swim Stress Induce Depressive-Like 
Phenotype in Mice: Effectiveness of 
3-[(4-Chlorophenyl)Selanyl]-1-Methyl-1H-Indole.

Pesarico AP(1), Birmann PT(1), Pinto R(1), Padilha NB(2), Lenardão EJ(2), 
Savegnago L(1).

Author information:
(1)Research Group on Neurobiotechnology-GPN, CDTec, Federal University of 
Pelotas, UFPel, Pelotas, Brazil.
(2)Laboratory of Clean Organic Synthesis-LASOL, CCQFA, Federal University of 
Pelotas, Pelotas, Brazil.

Exposure to stress highly correlates with the emergence of mood-related 
illnesses. Therefore, the present study was designed to characterize the acute 
and chronic effects of 3-((4-chlorophenyl)selanyl)-1-methyl-1H-indole (CMI) on 
depressive-like behavior induced by repeated forced swim stress (FSS) in male 
adult Swiss mice. In the repeated FSS, mice were placed in water to swim for a 
single trial during a 15-min period. Twenty-four hours after the first FSS, the 
animals were placed in water to swim through a series of four trials, and each 
of them swam for 6 min long; between each trial, mice were towel dried and 
returned to their home cage for 6 min. In addition, the oxidative stress in the 
prefrontal cortex and hippocampus and corticosterone levels of plasma of mice 
were investigated. The animals exposed to FSS were treated with CM in two 
different protocols. In protocol 1, CMI [1 and 10 mg/kg, intragastric (i.g.) 
route] or fluoxetine, a positive control (10 mg/kg, i.g. route), were 
administered 30 min before of sections of repeated FSS in both days of stress. 
After the last section of repeated FSS, the mice performed first the spontaneous 
locomotor activity and after the tail suspension test. In protocol 2, CMI or 
fluoxetine (1 mg/kg, i.g. route) was administered for 20 days after the 
exposition of repeated FSS. The spontaneous locomotor activity, tail suspension, 
and forced swimming tests were performed in this order after 24 h of last 
administration of CMI or fluoxetine. The euthanasia of animals was performed 
after the behavioral tests. CMI and fluoxetine abolished the depressive-like 
behavior induced by repeated FSS in mice in the two different treatments. CMI 
modulated the oxidative stress in the prefrontal cortices and hippocampi of mice 
subjected to repeated FSS. Mice subjected to repeated FSS had an increase in the 
corticosterone levels and CMI regulated the levels of this glucocorticoid. These 
findings demonstrate that CMI was effective to abolish the depressive-like 
behavior induced by repeated FSS, which was accompanied by changes in the 
corticosterone levels and oxidative stress of prefrontal cortices and hippocampi 
of mice.

Copyright © 2020 Pesarico, Birmann, Pinto, Padilha, Lenardão and Savegnago.

DOI: 10.3389/fnbeh.2020.00140
PMCID: PMC7481394
PMID: 33192355


242. Invert Neurosci. 2020 Nov 10;20(4):22. doi: 10.1007/s10158-020-00255-1.

Pharmacological characterization of the forced swim test in Drosophila 
melanogaster.

Rasti AR(1), Coombe VE(1), Muzik JR(1), Kliethermes CL(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychology and Neuroscience, Drake University, 318 Olin Hall, 
1344 27th Street, Des Moines, IA, 50311, USA.
(2)Department of Psychology and Neuroscience, Drake University, 318 Olin Hall, 
1344 27th Street, Des Moines, IA, 50311, USA. c.kliethermes@drake.edu.

The forced swim test is commonly used as a preclinical screen of antidepressant 
medication efficacy in rats and mice. Neckameyer and Nieto-Romero (Stress 
18:254-66, 2015) adopted the forced swim test for use with the fruit fly 
Drosophila melanogaster and showed that behavior in this test is sensitive to 
several physiologically relevant stressors. However, whether this test might be 
sensitive to the effects of antidepressant medications or other compounds is 
unknown. In the current studies, we fed drugs to male and female flies that we 
expected to either decrease or increase the duration of immobility in the forced 
swim test, including fluoxetine, desipramine, picrotoxin, reserpine, 
3-iodo-tyrosine, and ethanol. Fluoxetine was the only drug tested that affected 
behavior in this test, and surprisingly, the direction of the effect depended on 
the duration of feeding. Short-term (30 min) feeding of the drug prior to test 
resulted in the expected increase in latency to immobility, while a longer 
feeding duration (20-24 h) decreased this measure. These results suggest that 
the pharmacological profile of the fly FST is more restricted than that of the 
rat or mouse FST, and that the duration of drug exposure is an important 
consideration in pharmacological research using flies.

DOI: 10.1007/s10158-020-00255-1
PMID: 33170389 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


243. Behav Brain Res. 2021 Feb 5;399:113002. doi: 10.1016/j.bbr.2020.113002. Epub
 2020 Nov 5.

Adaptogenic effects of curcumin on depression induced by moderate and 
unpredictable chronic stress in mice.

da Silva Marques JG(1), Antunes FTT(1), da Silva Brum LF(1), Pedron C(1), de 
Oliveira IB(2), de Barros Falcão Ferraz A(3), Martins MIM(4), Dallegrave E(5), 
de Souza AH(6).

Author information:
(1)Postgraduate Program of Cellular and Molecular Biology Applied to Health, 
Lutheran University of Brazil, Canoas, RS, 92425-900, Brazil.
(2)Department of Pharmacy, Lutheran University of Brazil, Canoas, RS, 92425-900, 
Brazil.
(3)Postgraduate Program on Toxicology and Genetics, Lutheran University of 
Brazil, Canoas, RS, 92425-900, Brazil.
(4)Postgraduate Program of the Promotion of Health Human Development and 
Society, Lutheran University of Brazil, Canoas, RS, 92425-900, Brazil.
(5)Department of Pharmacosciences, Federal University of Health Sciences of 
Porto Alegre, RS, 90050-170, Brazil.
(6)Postgraduate Program of Cellular and Molecular Biology Applied to Health, 
Lutheran University of Brazil, Canoas, RS, 92425-900, Brazil; Department of 
Pharmacy, Lutheran University of Brazil, Canoas, RS, 92425-900, Brazil; 
Postgraduate Program of the Promotion of Health Human Development and Society, 
Lutheran University of Brazil, Canoas, RS, 92425-900, Brazil. Electronic 
address: alessandrahubnersouza@gmail.com.

Curcumin has been investigated for the prevention and treatment of diseases due 
to its anti-oxidant, anti-inflammatory, immunomodulatory, and neuroprotective 
actions. This current study evaluated the adaptogenic effects of a subchronic 
oral administration of curcumin to Swiss mice that were submitted to a chronic 
unpredictable mild stress (CUMS) model of depression. Four groups of mice 
(vehicle control, CO; curcumin control, COC; CUMS + vehicle, CUMS; CUMS + 
curcumin, CUMSC) were evaluated for the biochemical parameters. The CUMS model 
caused depressive-like and anxiety-like behavior in the animals when they were 
viewed in the Forced Swimming Test and in the Elevated Plus Maze Test. The 
treatments with curcumin prevented the depressive-like behavior in the Forced 
Swimming Test and they had anxiolytic effects on the non-stressed animals. This 
was confirmed by the Elevated Plus Maze Test. Curcumin showed antioxidant 
effects (IC50 of 38.86 ± 1.78 μg/mL) in the in vitro DPPH 
(2,2-diphenyl-1-picryl-hydrozole) test. The compound also showed antioxidant 
effects in vivo, increasing the catalase (CAT) levels in the brains of the 
stressed animals. The biochemical analyses did not reveal potential renal and 
hepatic damage. Together, these results have demonstrated the antidepressant and 
antioxidant effects of curcumin, highlighting in this mice model, the compound's 
novel adaptogenic potential.

Copyright © 2020. Published by Elsevier B.V.

DOI: 10.1016/j.bbr.2020.113002
PMID: 33161033 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


244. Genes Brain Behav. 2021 Apr;20(4):e12708. doi: 10.1111/gbb.12708. Epub 2020
Oct  26.

The circadian gene Cryptochrome 2 influences stress-induced brain activity and 
depressive-like behavior in mice.

Sokolowska E(1), Viitanen R(2), Misiewicz Z(1)(3), Mennesson M(1)(3)(4), Saarnio 
S(1), Kulesskaya N(1), Kängsep S(1), Liljenbäck H(2)(5), Marjamäki P(2), Autio 
A(2), Callan SA(1), Nuutila P(2)(6)(7), Roivainen A(2)(5)(7), Partonen T(8), 
Hovatta I(1)(3)(4)(8)(9).

Author information:
(1)Molecular and Integrative Biosciences Research Program, University of 
Helsinki, Helsinki, Finland.
(2)Turku PET Centre, University of Turku, Turku, Finland.
(3)Department of Psychology and Logopedics, University of Helsinki, Helsinki, 
Finland.
(4)SleepWell Research Program, Faculty of Medicine, University of Helsinki, 
Helsinki, Finland.
(5)Turku Center for Disease Modeling, University of Turku, Turku, Finland.
(6)Department of Endocrinology, Turku University Hospital, Turku, Finland.
(7)Turku PET Centre, Turku University Hospital, Turku, Finland.
(8)Department of Public Health Solutions, National Institute for Health and 
Welfare, Helsinki, Finland.
(9)Neuroscience Center, Helsinki Institute of Life Science HiLIFE, University of 
Helsinki, Helsinki, Finland.

Cryptochrome 2 (Cry2) is a core clock gene important for circadian regulation. 
It has also been associated with anxiety and depressive-like behaviors in mice, 
but the previous findings have been conflicting in terms of the direction of the 
effect. To begin to elucidate the molecular mechanisms of this association, we 
carried out behavioral testing, PET imaging, and gene expression analysis of 
Cry2-/- and Cry2+/+ mice. Compared to Cry2+/+ mice, we found that Cry2-/- mice 
spent less time immobile in the forced swim test, suggesting reduced 
despair-like behavior. Moreover, Cry2-/- mice had lower saccharin preference, 
indicative of increased anhedonia. In contrast, we observed no group differences 
in anxiety-like behavior. The behavioral changes were accompanied by lower 
metabolic activity of the ventro-medial hypothalamus, suprachiasmatic nuclei, 
ventral tegmental area, anterior and medial striatum, substantia nigra, and 
habenula after cold stress as measured by PET imaging with a glucose analog. 
Although the expression of many depression-associated and metabolic genes was 
upregulated or downregulated by cold stress, we observed no differences between 
Cry2-/- and Cry2+/+ mice. These findings are consistent with other studies 
showing that Cry2 is required for normal emotional behavior. Our findings 
confirm previous roles of Cry2 in behavior and extend them by showing that the 
effects on behavior may be mediated by changes in brain metabolism.

© 2020 International Behavioural and Neural Genetics Society and John Wiley & 
Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/gbb.12708
PMID: 33070440 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


245. Biomed Res Int. 2020 Sep 18;2020:1507561. doi: 10.1155/2020/1507561.
eCollection  2020.

Jiao-Tai-Wan Ameliorates Depressive-Like Behavior through the A(1)R Pathway in 
Ovariectomized Mice after Unpredictable Chronic Stress.

Xiang L(1), Feng Y(2), Hu Q(3), Zhu J(4), Ye R(5), Yuan Z(5).

Author information:
(1)Wenzhou Medical University First Affiliated Hospital, Wenzhou, Zhejiang 
Province 325000, China.
(2)Wujiang District Hospital of Traditional Chinese Medicine, Suzhou City, 
Suzhou, Jiangsu Province 215000, China.
(3)Wenzhou Hospital of TCM Affiliated to Zhejiang Chinese Medicine University, 
Wenzhou, 310053 Zhejiang Province, China.
(4)Wenzhou Medical University, Wenzhou, Zhejiang Province 325000, China.
(5)Department of Traditional Chinese Medicine, Wenzhou Medical University First 
Affiliated Hospital, Wenzhou, Zhejiang Province 325000, China.

OBJECTIVE: This study was aimed at observing the effect Jiao-Tai-Wan in 
menopausal depression.
METHODS: In this paper, we used ovariectomized mice subjected to chronic 
unpredictable stress as a menopausal depression model. After the chronic stress, 
mice were administrated with JTW (3.3 and 6.6mg/kg) and imipramine (10 mg/kg) 
for 14 days. On the 14th day, mice were subjected to the behavior test like the 
forced swim test, tail suspension test, and locomotor activity or were 
sacrificed to assess the protein changes in different brain regions.
RESULTS: The administration of JTW at doses of 3.3 and 6.6mg/kg (p.o.) 
significantly shortened the duration of immobility in forced swim and tail 
suspension tests. There was no obvious difference in locomotor activity among 
all the groups. The western blot analysis data indicated that treatment with JTW 
(3.3 and 6.6 mg/kg, p.o.) prominently increased the A1R protein and the 
downstream protein ERK1/2 levels in the prefrontal cortex and hippocampus. 
However, the administration of JTW did not influence c-Fos protein in either the 
prefrontal cortex or hippocampus.
CONCLUSION: Our findings suggest that JTW plays a vital role in ameliorating 
menopausal depression symptoms in the A1R-ERK1/2 pathway in the prefrontal 
cortex and hippocampus.

Copyright © 2020 Lina Xiang et al.

DOI: 10.1155/2020/1507561
PMCID: PMC7519999
PMID: 33015153 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that they have no conflicts 
of interest.


246. Sci Rep. 2020 Oct 1;10(1):16278. doi: 10.1038/s41598-020-73298-4.

Alleviation of depression-like behavior in a cystic fibrosis mouse model by 
Hdac6 depletion.

Corey DA(1), Rymut SM(1), Kelley TJ(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Genetics and Genome Sciences, Case Western Reserve University, 
833 BRB, 10900 Euclid Avenue, Cleveland, OH, 44106-4948, USA.
(2)Department of Genetics and Genome Sciences, Case Western Reserve University, 
833 BRB, 10900 Euclid Avenue, Cleveland, OH, 44106-4948, USA. 
Thomas.kelley@case.edu.

Cystic fibrosis (CF) patients experience heightened levels of anxiety and 
depression. Stress from dealing with chronic disease and rigorous treatment 
regimens certainly are primary contributors to these outcomes. We previously 
have demonstrated that microtubule alterations in CF are linked to a number of 
CF phenotypes including growth regulation and inflammatory responses to airway 
bacterial challenge. Deletion of histone deactelyase 6 (HDAC6), a cytosolic 
deacetylase that regulates tubulin acetylation, in CF mice restores growth and 
inflammatory phenotypes to wild type (WT) profiles. In this study, the 
hypothesis that Hdac6 depletion in CF mice would impact behaviors since Hda6 
inhibition has been previously reported to have anti-depressive properties. Data 
demonstrate that CF mice exhibit reduced activity and reduced open arm time in 
an elevated plus maze test which can be consistent with anxiety-like behavior. 
CF mice also exhibit depression-like behaviors compared to WT mice in an age 
dependent manner. By eight weeks of age, CF mice exhibit significantly more 
immobile time in the tail-suspension test, however, Hdac6 depletion reverses the 
depressive phenotype. These data demonstrate that loss of CFTR function may 
predispose patients to experience depression and that this behavior is Hdac6 
dependent.

DOI: 10.1038/s41598-020-73298-4
PMCID: PMC7530985
PMID: 33004910 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no competing interests.


247. Physiol Behav. 2021 Jan 1;228:113187. doi: 10.1016/j.physbeh.2020.113187.
Epub  2020 Sep 26.

Impact of different fructose concentrations on metabolic and behavioral 
parameters of male and female mice.

De Souza L(1), Barros WM(1), De Souza RM(1), Delanogare E(1), Machado AE(1), 
Braga SP(2), Rosa GK(3), Nardi GM(4), Rafacho A(5), Speretta GFF(5), Moreira 
ELG(6).

Author information:
(1)Programa de Pós-Graduação em Neurociências, Universidade Federal de Santa 
Catarina, 88040-900, Florianópolis, SC, Brasil.
(2)Programa de Pós-Graduação Multicêntrico em Ciências Fisiológicas, 
Universidade Federal de Santa Catarina, 88040-900, Florianópolis, SC, Brasil.
(3)Departamento de Ciências Fisiológicas, Universidade Federal de Santa 
Catarina, 88040-900, Florianópolis, SC, Brasil.
(4)Programa de Pós-Graduação em Biologia Celular e do Desenvolvimento, 
Universidade Federal de Santa Catarina, 88040-900, Florianópolis, SC, Brasil.
(5)Departamento de Ciências Fisiológicas, Universidade Federal de Santa 
Catarina, 88040-900, Florianópolis, SC, Brasil; Programa de Pós-Graduação em 
Neurociências, Universidade Federal de Santa Catarina, 88040-900, Florianópolis, 
SC, Brasil; Programa de Pós-Graduação Multicêntrico em Ciências Fisiológicas, 
Universidade Federal de Santa Catarina, 88040-900, Florianópolis, SC, Brasil.
(6)Departamento de Ciências Fisiológicas, Universidade Federal de Santa 
Catarina, 88040-900, Florianópolis, SC, Brasil; Programa de Pós-Graduação em 
Neurociências, Universidade Federal de Santa Catarina, 88040-900, Florianópolis, 
SC, Brasil; Programa de Pós-Graduação Multicêntrico em Ciências Fisiológicas, 
Universidade Federal de Santa Catarina, 88040-900, Florianópolis, SC, Brasil. 
Electronic address: eduardo.luiz@ufsc.br.

Clinical evidence has shown that a high consumption of sugar-sweetened beverages 
is a risk factor for developing obesity and metabolic syndrome. There has also 
been increasing interest in the potential effects of high-fructose intake on 
behavior. The present study evaluated sex differences in behavioral and 
metabolic characteristics in response to chronic fructose intake in mice. Swiss 
mice (3-months-old) had access to tap water or fructose-water solution (at 15% 
or 30% w/v) ad libitum for nine weeks. After the 8 weeks, the mice were 
submitted to a battery of behavioral tests. A glucose tolerance test was 
performed one day after these behavioral tests, and the next day blood was 
collected for biochemical analysis. At a 15% concentration, fructose-intaking 
resulted in higher plasma cholesterol levels and glucose intolerance in mice 
that paralleled with a passive stress-coping behavior in the female mice and 
lower self-care behavior in the male and the female mice. At a 30% 
concentration, fructose-intaking resulted in higher body mass gain and higher 
plasma cholesterol and triglycerides levels in the male and the female mice, 
whereas glucose intolerance was more pronounced in the male mice. Spatial memory 
impairments and lower self-care behavior were observed in the male and the 
female mice, while passive stress-coping behavior was observed only in the 
female mice. Collectively, high-fructose intake induces metabolic and behavioral 
alterations in mice, with the males being more susceptible to glucose metabolism 
dysfunctions and the females to depressive-like endophenotypes.

Copyright © 2020 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.physbeh.2020.113187
PMID: 32987042 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


248. Horm Behav. 2020 Nov;126:104852. doi: 10.1016/j.yhbeh.2020.104852. Epub 2020
Sep  23.

Endocrine stress responsivity and social memory in 3xTg-AD female and male mice: 
A tale of two experiments.

Nguyen ET(1), Selmanovic D(2), Maltry M(2), Morano R(2), Franco-Villanueva A(2), 
Estrada CM(3), Solomon MB(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychiatry and Behavioral Neuroscience, University of 
Cincinnati, Cincinnati, OH, USA; Neuroscience Graduate Program, University of 
Cincinnati College of Medicine, Cincinnati, OH, USA. Electronic address: 
nguyenee@mail.uc.edu.
(2)Department of Psychiatry and Behavioral Neuroscience, University of 
Cincinnati, Cincinnati, OH, USA.
(3)Experimental Psychology Graduate Program, University of Cincinnati, 
Cincinnati, OH, USA.
(4)Department of Psychiatry and Behavioral Neuroscience, University of 
Cincinnati, Cincinnati, OH, USA; Neuroscience Graduate Program, University of 
Cincinnati College of Medicine, Cincinnati, OH, USA; Experimental Psychology 
Graduate Program, University of Cincinnati, Cincinnati, OH, USA.

Stress confers risk for the development and progression of Alzheimer's disease 
(AD). Relative to men, women are disproportionately more likely to be diagnosed 
with this neurodegenerative disease. We hypothesized that sex differences in 
endocrine stress responsiveness may be a factor in this statistic. To test this 
hypothesis, we assessed basal and stress-induced corticosterone, social 
recognition, and coat state deterioration (surrogate for depression-like 
behavior) in male and female 3xTg-AD mice. Prior to reported amyloid plaque 
deposition, 3xTg females (4 months), but not 3xTg males, had heightened 
corticosterone responses to restraint exposure. Subsequently, only 3xTg females 
(6 months) displayed deficits in social memory concomitant with prominent 
β-amyloid (Aβ) immunostaining. These data suggest that elevated corticosterone 
stress responses may precede cognitive impairments in genetically vulnerable 
females. 3xTg mice of both sexes exhibited coat state deterioration relative to 
same-sex controls. Corticolimbic glucocorticoid receptor (GR) dysfunction is 
associated with glucocorticoid hypersecretion and cognitive impairment. Our 
findings indicate sex- and brain-region specific effects of genotype on 
hippocampal and amygdala GR protein expression. Because olfactory deficits may 
impede social recognition, in Experiment 2, we assessed olfaction and found no 
differences between genotypes. Notably, in this cohort, heightened 
corticosterone stress responses in 3xTg females was not accompanied by social 
memory deficits or coat state deterioration. However, coat state deterioration 
was consistent in 3xTg males. We report consistent heightened stress-induced 
corticosterone levels and Aβ pathology in female 3xTg-AD mice. However, the 
behavioral findings illuminate unknown inconsistencies in certain phenotypes in 
this AD mouse model.

Copyright © 2020. Published by Elsevier Inc.

DOI: 10.1016/j.yhbeh.2020.104852
PMID: 32949555 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


249. J Neurosci Res. 2020 Dec;98(12):2541-2553. doi: 10.1002/jnr.24724. Epub 2020
Sep  11.

Sex-specific peripheral and central responses to stress-induced depression and 
treatment in a mouse model.

Deonaraine KK(1), Wang Q(2)(3)(4), Cheng H(2), Chan KL(1), Lin HY(1), Liu K(5), 
Parise LF(1), Cathomas F(1), Leclair KB(1), Flanigan ME(1), Li L(1), Aleyasin 
H(1), Guevara C(1), Hao K(2), Zhang B(2)(3)(4), Russo SJ(1), Wang J(5)(6).

Author information:
(1)Department of Neuroscience, Icahn School of Medicine at Mount Sinai, New 
York, NY, USA.
(2)Department of Genetics and Genomic Sciences, Icahn School of Medicine at 
Mount Sinai, New York, NY, USA.
(3)Mount Sinai Center for Transformative Disease Modeling, Icahn School of 
Medicine at Mount Sinai, New York, NY, USA.
(4)Icahn Institute of Genomics and Multi-Scale Biology, Icahn School of Medicine 
at Mount Sinai, New York, NY, USA.
(5)Department of Neurology, Icahn School of Medicine at Mount Sinai, New York, 
NY, USA.
(6)Geriatric Research, Education and Clinical Center, James J. Peters Veterans 
Affairs Medical Center, Bronx, NY, USA.

Major depressive disorder affects ~20% of the world population and is 
characterized by strong sexual dimorphism with females being two to three times 
more likely to develop this disorder. Previously, we demonstrated that a 
combination therapy with dihydrocaffeic acid and malvidin-glucoside to 
synergistically target peripheral inflammation and stress-induced synaptic 
maladaptation in the brain was effective in alleviating chronic social defeat 
stress (CSDS)-induced depression-like phenotype in male mice. Here, we test the 
combination therapy in a female CSDS model for depression and compared 
sex-specific responses to stress in the periphery and the central nervous 
system. Similar to male mice, the combination treatment is also effective in 
promoting resilience against the CSDS-induced depression-like behavior in female 
mice. However, there are sex-specific differences in peripheral immune responses 
and differential gene regulation in the prefrontal cortex to chronic stress and 
to the treatment. These data indicate that while therapeutic approaches to 
combat stress-related disorders may be effective in both sexes, the mechanisms 
underlying these effects differ, emphasizing the need for inclusion of both 
sexes in preclinical studies using animal models.

© 2020 Wiley Periodicals LLC.

DOI: 10.1002/jnr.24724
PMCID: PMC8561614
PMID: 32918293 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of Interest statement: The authors 
declare no conflict of interest of any type


250. Evid Based Complement Alternat Med. 2020 Aug 21;2020:7481813. doi: 
10.1155/2020/7481813. eCollection 2020.

Effect of Electroacupuncture at GV20 on Sleep Deprivation-Induced 
Depression-Like Behavior in Mice.

Xu X(1), Zheng P(2), Zhao H(3), Song B(1), Wang F(1).

Author information:
(1)Changchun University of Chinese Medicine, Changchun 130117, China.
(2)Jilin Provincial Hospital of Traditional Chinese Medicine, Changchun 
University of Chinese Medicine, Changchun 130021, China.
(3)Institute of Basic Theory of Chinese Medicine, China Academy of Chinese 
Medical Science, Beijing 100700, China.

Accumulating evidence suggests that sleep deprivation (S-Dep) is a critical risk 
factor for depression. Electroacupuncture (EA) treatment has been reported to 
ameliorate posttraumatic stress disorder- (PSTD-) like behavior and enhance 
hippocampal neurogenesis. However, whether EA treatment has any beneficial 
effect on S-Dep-induced depression-like behavior is still unknown. In the 
present study, we focused on whether EA at Baihui (GV20) can ameliorate the 
deterioration effect of S-Dep in mice. Mice were randomly divided into normal, 
S-Dep, S-Dep + EA, and S-Dep + sham EA groups. Cognitive behavior test and in 
vitro assay were performed separately to avoid the influence of behavior test on 
synaptic transmission and protein expression. Depression-like behaviors were 
determined by forced swimming test (FST), tail suspension test (TST), and Morris 
water maze (MWM). Neurogenesis was identified by BrdU, DCX, and NeuN 
immunofluorescence staining. In vitro long-term potentiation was detected by 
high frequency stimulation (HFS) at Schaffer collateral-CA1 synapses in 
hippocampal slices. Brain-derived neurotropic factor (BDNF) and tropomyosin 
receptor kinase B (TrkB) protein expression level were assayed by western blot. 
Our results indicated that D-Sep mice demonstrated depression-like behaviors 
determined by prolonged immobility duration in FST and TST; D-Sep mice also 
manifested spatial memory retention deficit in MWM. Furthermore, EA treatment 
ameliorated D-Sep-induced depression-like behaviors and spatial memory retention 
deficit. Mechanically, EA treatment alleviated neuron progenitor cell 
proliferation and differentiation, ameliorated the field excitatory postsynaptic 
potentials (fEPSPs) slope impaired by S-Dep, and elevated BDNF/TrkB protein 
expression. Taken together, our data suggested that EA treatment has a 
protective effect on S-Dep-induced depression-like behavior and cognitive 
impairment, which may be through regulating BDNF/TrkB protein expression.

Copyright © 2020 Xiaohong Xu et al.

DOI: 10.1155/2020/7481813
PMCID: PMC7456497
PMID: 32904512

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that there are no conflicts 
of interest regarding the publication of this paper.


251. Naunyn Schmiedebergs Arch Pharmacol. 2021 Jan;394(1):127-135. doi: 
10.1007/s00210-020-01970-7. Epub 2020 Sep 7.

Stress-induced alterations of social behavior are reversible by antagonism of 
steroid hormones in C57/BL6 mice.

Gasser BA(1), Kurz J(2), Senn W(3), Escher G(4)(5), Mohaupt MG(4)(6).

Author information:
(1)Department of Clinical Research, University of Bern, 3010, Berne, 
Switzerland. gasser@pyl.unibe.ch.
(2)Intersci Research Association, Karl Morre Gasse 10, 8430, Leibnitz, Austria.
(3)Department of Physiology, University of Bern, 3012, Berne, Switzerland.
(4)Department of Clinical Research, University of Bern, 3010, Berne, 
Switzerland.
(5)Division of Nephrology/Hypertension, University of Bern, 3010, Berne, 
Switzerland.
(6)Teaching Hospital Internal Medicine, Lindenhofgruppe, 3006, Berne, 
Switzerland.

Various disturbances of social behavior, such as autism, depression, or 
posttraumatic stress disorder, have been associated with an altered steroid 
hormone homeostasis and a dysregulation of the hypothalamus-pituitary-adrenal 
axis. A link between steroid hormone antagonists and the treatment of 
stress-related conditions has been suggested. We evaluated the effects of stress 
induction on social behavior in the three chambers and its potential 
reversibility upon specific steroid hormone antagonism in mice. C57BL/6 mice 
were stressed twice daily for 8 days by chronic swim testing. Social behavior 
was evaluated by measuring, first, the preference for sociability and, second, 
the preference for social novelty in the three-chamber approach before and after 
the chronic swim test. The reversibility of behavior upon stress induction was 
analyzed after applying steroid hormone antagonists targeting glucocorticoids 
with etomidate, mineralocorticoids with potassium canrenoate, and androgens with 
cyproterone acetate and metformin. In the chronic swim test, increased floating 
time from 0.8 ± 0.2 min up to 4.8 ± 0.25 min was detected (p < 0.01). In the 
three-chamber approach, increased preference for sociability and decreased 
preference for social novelty was detected pre- versus post-stress induction. 
These alterations of social behavior were barely affected by etomidate and 
potassium canrenoate, whereas the two androgen antagonists metformin and 
cyproterone acetate restored social behavior even beyond baseline conditions. 
The alteration of social behavior was better reversed by the androgen as 
compared with the glucocorticoid and mineralocorticoid antagonists. This 
suggests that social behavior is primarily controlled by androgen rather than by 
glucocorticoid or mineralocorticoid action. The stress-induced changes in 
preference for sociability are incompletely explained by steroid hormone action 
alone. As the best response was related to metformin, an effect via glucose 
levels might confound the results and should be subject to future research.

DOI: 10.1007/s00210-020-01970-7
PMCID: PMC7778626
PMID: 32894324 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that they have no conflict 
of interest.


252. Exp Neurol. 2020 Dec;334:113459. doi: 10.1016/j.expneurol.2020.113459. Epub
2020  Sep 3.

Ketamine, but not guanosine, as a prophylactic agent against 
corticosterone-induced depressive-like behavior: Possible role of long-lasting 
pro-synaptogenic signaling pathway.

Camargo A(1), Dalmagro AP(2), de Souza MM(2), Zeni ALB(3), Rodrigues ALS(4).

Author information:
(1)Neuroscience Postgraduate Program, Center of Biological Sciences, 
Universidade Federal de Santa Catarina, Florianópolis 88040-900, SC, Brazil.
(2)Pharmaceutical Sciences Postgraduate Program, Center of Health Sciences, 
Universidade do Vale do Itajaí, CEP 88302-202 Itajaí, Santa Catarina, Brazil.
(3)Department of Natural Sciences, Center of Exact and Natural Sciences, 
Universidade Regional de Blumenau, CEP 89030-903 Blumenau, Santa Catarina, 
Brazil.
(4)Neuroscience Postgraduate Program, Center of Biological Sciences, 
Universidade Federal de Santa Catarina, Florianópolis 88040-900, SC, Brazil. 
Electronic address: ana.l.rodrigues@ufsc.br.

Ketamine has been reported to exert a prophylactic effect against stress-induced 
depressive-like behavior by modulating the guanosine-based purinergic system. 
However, the molecular pathways underlying its prophylactic effect and whether 
guanosine also elicits a similar effect remain to be determined. Here, we 
investigated the prophylactic effect of ketamine and guanosine against 
corticosterone (CORT - 20 mg/kg, p.o.)-induced depressive-like behavior in mice. 
Furthermore, we characterized if the prophylactic response may be associated 
with mTORC1-driven signaling in the hippocampus and prefrontal cortex. A single 
administration of ketamine (5 mg/kg, i.p.), but not guanosine (1 or 5 mg/kg, 
p.o.), given 1 week before the pharmacological stress prevented CORT-induced 
depressive-like behavior in the tail suspension test (TST) and splash test 
(SPT). Fluoxetine treatment for 3 weeks did not prevent CORT-induced behavioral 
effects. A single administration of subthreshold doses of ketamine (1 mg/kg, 
i.p.) plus guanosine (5 mg/kg, p.o.) partially prevented the CORT-induced 
depressive-like behavior in the SPT. Additionally, CORT reduced Akt (Ser473) and 
GSK-3β (Ser9) phosphorylation and PSD-95, GluA1, and synapsin immunocontent in 
the hippocampus, but not in the prefrontal cortex. No alterations on 
mTORC1/p70S6K immunocontent were found in both regions in any experimental 
group. CORT-induced reductions on PSD-95, GluA1, and synapsin immunocontent were 
prevented only by ketamine treatment. Collectively, these findings suggest that 
ketamine, but not guanosine, exerts a prophylactic effect against 
depressive-like behavior, an effect associated with the stimulation of 
long-lasting pro-synaptogenic signaling in the hippocampus.

Copyright © 2020 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.expneurol.2020.113459
PMCID: PMC7470721
PMID: 32891670 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: All the authors declare that have no biomedical 
financial interests or conflict of interest in this study.


253. Int J Mol Sci. 2020 Aug 31;21(17):6331. doi: 10.3390/ijms21176331.

Effects of Early Life Stress on Epigenetic Changes of the Glucocorticoid 
Receptor 1(7) Promoter during Adulthood.

Seo MK(1), Kim SG(2), Seog DH(3), Bahk WM(4), Kim SH(5), Park SW(6), Lee JG(7).

Author information:
(1)Paik Institute for Clinical Research, Inje University, Busan 47392, Korea.
(2)Department of Psychiatry, College of Medicine, Haeundae Paik Hospital, Inje 
University, Busan 47392, Korea.
(3)Department of Biochemistry, Department of Convergence Biomedical Science, 
College of Medicine, Dementia and Neurodegenerative Disease Research Center, 
Inje University, Busan 47392, Korea.
(4)Department of Psychiatry, College of Medicine, The Catholic University of 
Korea, Seoul 07345, Korea.
(5)Department of Internal Medicine, College of Medicine, Haeundae Paik Hospital, 
Paik Institute for Clinical Research, Inje University, Busan 47392, Korea.
(6)Department of Convergence Biomedical Science, College of Medicine, Paik 
Institute for Clinical Research, Department of Health Science and Technology, 
Graduate School, Inje University, Busan 47392, Korea.
(7)Department of Psychiatry, College of Medicine, Haeundae Paik Hospital, Paik 
Institute for Clinical Research, Department of Health Science and Technology, 
Graduate School, Inje University, Busan 47392, Korea.

Growing evidence suggests that early life stress (ELS) has long-lasting effects 
on glucocorticoid receptor (GR) expression and behavior via epigenetic changes 
of the GR exon 17 promoter. However, it remains unclear whether ELS regulates 
histone modifications of the GR exon 17 promoter across the life span. We 
investigated the effects of maternal separation (MS) on histone acetylation and 
methylation of GR exon 17 promoter in the hippocampus, according to the age of 
adults. Depression-like behavior and epigenetic regulation of GR expression were 
examined at young and middle adulthood in mice subjected to MS from postnatal 
day 1 to 21. In the forced swimming test, young adult MS mice showed no effect 
on immobility time, but middle-aged MS mice significantly increased immobility 
time. Young adult and middle-aged MS mice showed decreased GR expression. Their 
two ages showed decreased histone acetylation with increased histone 
deacetylases (HDAC5) levels, decreased permissive methylation, and increased 
repressive methylation at the GR exon 17 promoter. The extent of changes in gene 
expression and histone modification in middle adulthood was greater than in 
young adulthood. These results indicate that MS in early life causes long-term 
negative effects on behavior via histone modification of the GR gene across the 
life span.

DOI: 10.3390/ijms21176331
PMCID: PMC7503815
PMID: 32878311 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


254. Pharmacol Biochem Behav. 2020 Nov;198:173020. doi:
10.1016/j.pbb.2020.173020.  Epub 2020 Aug 28.

The involvement of PI3K/Akt/mTOR/GSK3β signaling pathways in the 
antidepressant-like effect of AZD6765.

Neis VB(1), Moretti M(2), Rosa PB(2), Dalsenter YO(2), Werle I(2), Platt N(2), 
Kaufmann FN(3), Rosado AF(2), Besen MH(2), Rodrigues ALS(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Biochemistry, Center of Biological Sciences, Universidade 
Federal de Santa Catarina, Campus Universitário, Trindade, 88040-900 
Florianópolis, SC, Brazil. Electronic address: vivianbneis@gmail.com.
(2)Department of Biochemistry, Center of Biological Sciences, Universidade 
Federal de Santa Catarina, Campus Universitário, Trindade, 88040-900 
Florianópolis, SC, Brazil.
(3)Department of Biochemistry, Center of Biological Sciences, Universidade 
Federal de Santa Catarina, Campus Universitário, Trindade, 88040-900 
Florianópolis, SC, Brazil; Department of Psychiatry and Neuroscience, Faculty of 
Medicine and CERVO Brain Research Center, Université Laval, Quebec City, Canada.

AZD6765 (lanicemine) is a non-competitive NMDA receptor antagonist that induces 
a fast-acting antidepressant effect without presenting psychotomimetic effects. 
However, the mechanisms underlying its effects remain to be established. In this 
context, we demonstrated that a single administration of AZD6765 (1 mg/kg, i.p.) 
was able to induce an antidepressant-like effect in mice submitted to tail 
suspension test (TST), an effect reversed by LY294002 (a reversible PI3K 
inhibitor, 10 nmol/site, i.c.v.), wortmannin (an irreversible PI3K inhibitor, 
0.1 μg/site, i.c.v.) and rapamycin (a selective mTOR inhibitor, 0.2 nmol/site, 
i.c.v.). In addition, the administration of sub-effective doses of AZD6765 
(0.1 mg/kg, i.p.) in combination with lithium chloride (non-selective GSK-3β 
inhibitor, 10 mg/kg, p.o.) or AR-A014418 (selective GSK-3β inhibitor, 
(0.01 μg/site, i.c.v.) caused a synergistic antidepressant-like effect. These 
results suggest the involvement of PI3K/Akt/mTOR/GSK3β signaling in the AZD6765 
antidepressant-like effect. In addition, western blotting analysis showed an 
increased immunocontent of synapsin in the prefrontal cortex and a tendency to 
an increased immunocontent of this protein in the hippocampus 30 min after 
AZD6765 administration, but no significant effect of AZD6765 was observed in 
P70S6K (Thr389) phosphorylation and GluA1 immunocontent. A single dose of 
AZD6765 (3 mg/kg, i.p.), similarly to ketamine (1 mg/kg, i.p.), decreased the 
latency to feed in the novelty suppressed feeding (NSF) test, a behavioral 
paradigm that evaluates depression/anxiety-related behavior. This effect was 
reversed by rapamycin administration, suggesting the activation of mTOR 
signaling in the effect of AZD in the NSF test. In addition, a single 
administration of AZD6765 (1 mg/kg, i.p.) or ketamine (1 mg/kg, i.p.) reversed 
the depressive-like behavior induced by chronic unpredictable stress (CUS). 
Altogether, the results provide evidence for the fast-acting antidepressant 
profile of AZD6765, by a mechanism likely dependent on PI3K/Akt/mTOR/GSK3β.

Copyright © 2020 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.pbb.2020.173020
PMID: 32861641 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


255. Brain Behav Immun. 2020 Nov;90:226-234. doi: 10.1016/j.bbi.2020.08.022. Epub
 2020 Aug 26.

(+)-Naloxone blocks Toll-like receptor 4 to ameliorate deleterious effects of 
stress on male mouse behaviors.

Medina-Rodriguez EM(1), Rice KC(2), Beurel E(3), Jope RS(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychiatry and Behavioral Sciences, Miller School of Medicine, 
University of Miami, Miami, FL 33136, United States; Bruce W. Carter Department 
of Veterans Affairs Medical Center, Miami, FL 33125, United States.
(2)Drug Design and Synthesis Section, National Institute on Drug Abuse and 
National Institute on Alcohol Abuse and Alcoholism, Bethesda, MD, United States.
(3)Department of Psychiatry and Behavioral Sciences, Miller School of Medicine, 
University of Miami, Miami, FL 33136, United States; Department of Biochemistry 
and Molecular Biology, Miller School of Medicine, University of Miami, Miami, FL 
33136, United States.
(4)Department of Psychiatry and Behavioral Sciences, Miller School of Medicine, 
University of Miami, Miami, FL 33136, United States; Bruce W. Carter Department 
of Veterans Affairs Medical Center, Miami, FL 33125, United States; Department 
of Biochemistry and Molecular Biology, Miller School of Medicine, University of 
Miami, Miami, FL 33136, United States. Electronic address: rjope@med.miami.edu.

Comment in
    Brain Behav Immun. 2021 Jan;91:6-7.

Depression is a leading cause of disability worldwide and current treatments are 
often inadequate for many patients. Increasing evidence indicates that 
inflammation contributes to susceptibility to depression. We hypothesized that 
targeting Toll-like receptor 4 (TLR4), one of the main signaling pathways for 
triggering an inflammatory response, would lessen stress-induced depression-like 
behaviors in male mice. TLR4 inhibition with the CNS-penetrating drug 
(+)-naloxone that is a TLR4 antagonist but is inactive at opiate receptors 
increased resistance to the learned helplessness model of depression and 
provided an antidepressant-like effect in the tail suspension test. (+)-Naloxone 
administration also reversed chronic restraint stress-induced impairments in 
social behavior and novel object recognition. These effects involved blockade of 
stress-induced activation of glycogen synthase kinase 3β (GSK3β), NF-κB, IFN 
regulatory factor 3 (IRF3) and nitric oxide production, and reduced levels of 
the cytokines tumor necrosis factor-α (TNFα) and interferon-β (IFNβ). These 
findings demonstrate that blocking TLR4 with (+)-naloxone effectively diminishes 
several detrimental responses to stress and raise the possibility that 
(+)-naloxone may be a feasible intervention for depression.

Published by Elsevier Inc.

DOI: 10.1016/j.bbi.2020.08.022
PMCID: PMC7570045
PMID: 32860941 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of Competing Interest The authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper.


256. J Neurosci. 2020 Sep 16;40(38):7241-7254. doi:
10.1523/JNEUROSCI.0444-20.2020.  Epub 2020 Aug 26.

Dopaminergic Signaling in the Nucleus Accumbens Modulates Stress-Coping 
Strategies during Inescapable Stress.

Cui W(1)(2)(3), Aida T(2)(4), Ito H(1), Kobayashi K(5), Wada Y(6), Kato S(7), 
Nakano T(1), Zhu M(1), Isa K(8), Kobayashi K(7), Isa T(8), Tanaka K(2), Aizawa 
H(9)(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurobiology, Institute of Biomedical and Health Sciences, 
Hiroshima University, Hiroshima 734-8553, Japan.
(2)Laboratory of Molecular Neuroscience, Medical Research Institute, Tokyo 
Medical and Dental University, Tokyo 113-8510, Japan.
(3)Department of Neurosciences, School of Medicine, Case Western Reserve 
University, Cleveland, OH 44106.
(4)McGovern Institute for Brain Research, Department of Brain and Cognitive 
Sciences, Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Cambridge, MA 02139.
(5)Section of Viral Vector Development, National Institute of Physiological 
Sciences, Okazaki, Aichi 444-8585, Japan.
(6)FASMAC Company Ltd, Atsugi 243-0041, Japan.
(7)Department of Molecular Genetics, Institute of Biomedical Sciences, Fukushima 
Medical University, Fukushima 960-1295, Japan.
(8)Department of Neuroscience, Graduate School of Medicine, Kyoto University, 
Kyoto 606-8501, Japan.
(9)Department of Neurobiology, Institute of Biomedical and Health Sciences, 
Hiroshima University, Hiroshima 734-8553, Japan haizawa@hiroshima-u.ac.jp.

Maladaptation to stress is a critical risk factor in stress-related disorders, 
such as major depression and post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD). Dopamine 
signaling in the nucleus accumbens (NAc) has been shown to modulate behavior by 
reinforcing learning and evading aversive stimuli, which are important for the 
survival of animals under environmental challenges such as stress. However, the 
mechanisms through which dopaminergic transmission responds to stressful events 
and subsequently regulates its downstream neuronal activity during stress remain 
unknown. To investigate how dopamine signaling modulates stress-coping behavior, 
we measured the subsecond fluctuation of extracellular dopamine concentration 
and pH using fast scanning cyclic voltammetry (FSCV) in the NAc, a postsynaptic 
target of midbrain dopaminergic neurons, in male mice engaged in a tail 
suspension test (TST). The results revealed a transient decrease in dopamine 
concentration and an increase in pH levels when the animals changed behaviors, 
from being immobile to struggling. Interestingly, optogenetic inhibition of 
dopamine release in NAc, potentiated the struggling behavior in animals under 
the TST. We then addressed the causal relationship of such a dopaminergic 
transmission with behavioral alterations by knocking out both the dopamine 
receptors, i.e., D1 and D2, in the NAc using viral vector-mediated genome 
editing. Behavioral analyses revealed that male D1 knock-out mice showed 
significantly more struggling bouts and longer struggling durations during the 
TST, while male D2 knock-out mice did not. Our results therefore indicate that 
D1 dopaminergic signaling in the NAc plays a pivotal role in the modulation of 
stress-coping behaviors in animals under tail suspension stress.SIGNIFICANCE 
STATEMENT The tail suspension test (TST) has been widely used as a despair-based 
behavioral assessment to screen the antidepressant so long. Despite its 
prevalence in the animal studies, the neural substrate underlying the changes of 
behavior during the test remains unclear. This study provides an evidence for a 
role of dopaminergic transmission in the modulation of stress-coping behavior 
during the TST, a despair test widely used to screen the antidepressants in 
rodents. Taking into consideration the fact that the dopamine metabolism is 
upregulated by almost all antidepressants, a part of which acts directly on the 
dopaminergic transmission, current results would uncover the molecular mechanism 
through which the dopaminergic signaling mediates antidepressant effect with 
facilitation of the recovery from the despair-like behavior in the TST.

Copyright © 2020 the authors.

DOI: 10.1523/JNEUROSCI.0444-20.2020
PMCID: PMC7534921
PMID: 32847967 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


257. Behav Brain Res. 2020 Oct 1;395:112863. doi: 10.1016/j.bbr.2020.112863. Epub
 2020 Aug 17.

Antidepressant-like effects of solidagenone on mice with bacterial 
lipopolysaccharide (LPS)-induced depression.

Locateli G(1), de Oliveira Alves B(2), Miorando D(2), Ernetti J(2), Alievi K(2), 
Zilli GAL(2), Serpa PZ(1), Vecchia CAD(1), Mota da Silva L(3), Müller LG(4), 
Roman Junior WA(5).

Author information:
(1)Programa de Pós-graduação em Ciências da Saúde, Universidade Comunitária da 
Região de Chapecó, Chapecó, SC, Brazil.
(2)Laboratório de Farmacognosia, Universidade Comunitária da Região de Chapecó, 
Chapecó, SC, Brazil.
(3)Programa de Pós-graduação em Ciências Farmacêuticas, Universidade do Vale do 
Itajaí, Itajaí, SC, Brazil.
(4)Programa de Pós-graduação em Ciências Ambientais, Universidade Comunitária da 
Região de Chapecó, Chapecó, SC, Brazil.
(5)Programa de Pós-graduação em Ciências da Saúde, Universidade Comunitária da 
Região de Chapecó, Chapecó, SC, Brazil; Laboratório de Farmacognosia, 
Universidade Comunitária da Região de Chapecó, Chapecó, SC, Brazil. Electronic 
address: romanwa@unochapeco.edu.br.

BACKGROUND: Considering the pharmacological potential of solidagenone from 
Solidago chilensis, the present investigation was carried out to evaluate its 
antidepressant-like effect in mice with bacterial lipopolysaccharide 
(LPS)-induced depressive like behavior and its mode of action through the 
measurement of neuroinflammatory and oxidative markers.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: In the prophylactic test, the mice were pretreated with 
solidagenone (1, 10 or 100 mg/kg, p.o) and after one hour received LPS. In 
therapeutic test, the mice received LPS and after 5 h were treated with 
solidagenone (1, 10 or 100 mg/kg, p.o). In both experimental approaches, the 
animals were submitted to OFT and to the TST after 6 and 24 h of the LPS 
administration, respectively. One hour after the TST the animals were 
euthanized, the blood was collected, the cortex was removed and biochemical 
analyzes were performed for measurement of the inflammatory and oxidative stress 
markers.
RESULTS: The LPS induced sickness- and depressive-like behaviors and increased 
the cortical activity of myeloperoxidase (MPO), as well as the IL-6 and TNF 
amount. Interestingly, the pretreatment with solidagenone at 100 mg/kg avoided 
the behavioral alterations in OFT. In the mice post treated with solidagenone, 
all tested doses of resulted in an antidepressant-like effect evidenced by the 
decrease in immobility time in the TST. This effect was accompanied by a 
decrease in the MPO activity and in the IL-6 and TNF levels in the cortex in 
parallel to the increase in catalase activity.
CONCLUSIONS: The solidagenone has a promissor antidepressant-like potential, 
which can result of its beneficial action in the neuroinflammation process and 
due its antioxidant capability at the central nervous system.

Copyright © 2020 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.bbr.2020.112863
PMID: 32818537 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


258. Exp Neurol. 2020 Nov;333:113433. doi: 10.1016/j.expneurol.2020.113433. Epub
2020  Aug 10.

Rostromedial tegmental nucleus-substantia nigra pars compacta circuit mediates 
aversive and despair behavior in mice.

Sun Y(1), Cao J(2), Xu C(3), Liu X(4), Wang Z(5), Zhao H(6).

Author information:
(1)Department of Physiology, College of Basic Medical Sciences, Jilin 
University, Changchun 130021, PR China. Electronic address: 
sunyf17@mails.jlu.edu.cn.
(2)Department of Physiology, College of Basic Medical Sciences, Jilin 
University, Changchun 130021, PR China.
(3)Shijiazhuang Fifth Hospital, Shijiazhuang 050000, PR China.
(4)Neuroscience Research Center, First Hospital of Jilin University, Changchun 
130021, PR China.
(5)Norman Bethune Health Science Center of Jilin University, Changchun 130021, 
PR China.
(6)Department of Physiology, College of Basic Medical Sciences, Jilin 
University, Changchun 130021, PR China; Neuroscience Research Center, First 
Hospital of Jilin University, Changchun 130021, PR China. Electronic address: 
Zhua@jlu.edu.cn.

GABAergic neurons in the rostromedial tegmental nucleus (RMTg) receive major 
input from the lateral habenula (LHb), which conveys negative reward and 
motivation related information, and project intensively to midbrain dopamine 
neurons, including those in the ventral tegmental area (VTA) and substantia 
nigra pars compacta (SNc). The RMTg-VTA circuit has been shown to be linked to 
the affective behavior, but the role of the RMTg-SNc circuit in aversion and 
depression has not been well understood. This study demonstrated that exciting 
or inhibiting VgatRMTg-SNc neurons was sufficient to increase or decrease 
immobility time in the forced swim test (FST), respectively. Furthermore, 
exciting the VgatRMTg-SNc pathway caused aversive behavior. Ninety percent of 
the SNc putative dopamine neurons were inhibited in extracellular recordings. 
Furthermore, inhibiting the VgatRMTg-SNc pathway reversed behavioral despair in 
chronic restraint stress (CRS) depression model mice. Manipulations of the 
pathway did not affect the hedonic value of the reward in the sucrose-preference 
test (SPT) or general motor function. In conclusion, these results indicate that 
the VgatRMTg-SNc pathway regulates aversive and despair behavior, which suggests 
that the RMTg may mediate the role of LHb in negative behaviors through 
regulating the activity of SNc neurons.

Copyright © 2020 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.expneurol.2020.113433
PMID: 32791155 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of Competing Interest The authors 
declare that there are no conflict financial interests with regard to this 
manuscript.


259. Neurosci Bull. 2021 Jan;37(1):1-14. doi: 10.1007/s12264-020-00553-z. Epub
2020  Aug 12.

Astrocyte-Derived Lactate Modulates the Passive Coping Response to Behavioral 
Challenge in Male Mice.

Yin YN(1), Hu J(1), Wei YL(1), Li ZL(1), Luo ZC(1), Wang RQ(1), Yang KX(1), Li 
SJ(1), Li XW(1), Yang JM(2), Gao TM(3).

Author information:
(1)State Key Laboratory of Organ Failure Research, Key Laboratory of Mental 
Health of the Ministry of Education, Guangdong-Hong Kong-Macao Greater Bay Area 
Center for Brain Science and Brain-Inspired Intelligence, Guangdong Province Key 
Laboratory of Psychiatric Disorders, Collaborative Innovation Center for Brain 
Science, Department of Neurobiology, School of Basic Medical Sciences, Southern 
Medical University, Guangzhou, 510515, China.
(2)State Key Laboratory of Organ Failure Research, Key Laboratory of Mental 
Health of the Ministry of Education, Guangdong-Hong Kong-Macao Greater Bay Area 
Center for Brain Science and Brain-Inspired Intelligence, Guangdong Province Key 
Laboratory of Psychiatric Disorders, Collaborative Innovation Center for Brain 
Science, Department of Neurobiology, School of Basic Medical Sciences, Southern 
Medical University, Guangzhou, 510515, China. jimmyyoung@smu.edu.cn.
(3)State Key Laboratory of Organ Failure Research, Key Laboratory of Mental 
Health of the Ministry of Education, Guangdong-Hong Kong-Macao Greater Bay Area 
Center for Brain Science and Brain-Inspired Intelligence, Guangdong Province Key 
Laboratory of Psychiatric Disorders, Collaborative Innovation Center for Brain 
Science, Department of Neurobiology, School of Basic Medical Sciences, Southern 
Medical University, Guangzhou, 510515, China. tgao@smu.edu.cn.

Every organism inevitably experiences stress. In the face of acute, intense 
stress, for example, periods of passivity occur when an organism's actions fail 
to overcome the challenge. The occurrence of inactive behavior may indicate that 
struggling would most likely be fruitless. Repeated serious stress has been 
associated with mood disorders such as depression. The modulation of passive 
coping response patterns has been explored with a focus on the circuit level. 
However, the cellular and molecular mechanisms are largely uncharacterized. 
Here, we report that lactate is a key factor in the astrocytic modulation of the 
passive coping response to behavioral challenge in adult mice. We found 
increased extracellular lactate in the medial prefrontal cortex (mPFC) when mice 
experienced the forced swimming test (FST). Furthermore, we discovered that 
disturbing astrocytic glycogenolysis, which is a key step for lactate production 
in the mPFC, decreased the duration of immobility in the FST. Knocking down 
monocarboxylate transporter 4 (MCT4), which is expressed exclusively in 
astrocytes and transports lactate from astrocytes to the extracellular space, 
caused similar results in the FST. The behavioral effect of both the 
pharmacological disturbance of astrocytic glycogenolysis and viral disruption of 
MCT4 expression was rescued via the administration of L-lactate. Moreover, we 
found that both pharmacological and viral modulation of astrocyte-derived 
lactate in mPFC slices increased the excitability of layer V pyramidal neurons, 
and this enhancement was reversed by exogenous L-lactate administration. These 
results highlight astrocyte-derived lactate as a biological mechanism underlying 
the passive coping response to behavioral challenge and may provide new 
strategies to prevent mood disorders.

DOI: 10.1007/s12264-020-00553-z
PMCID: PMC7811973
PMID: 32785834 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no competing financial 
interests.


260. Biochem Biophys Res Commun. 2020 Oct 1;530(4):658-664. doi: 
10.1016/j.bbrc.2020.07.098. Epub 2020 Aug 5.

Ginsenoside Rk1 alleviates LPS-induced depression-like behavior in mice by 
promoting BDNF and suppressing the neuroinflammatory response.

Li Z(1), Zhao L(1), Chen J(1), Liu C(1), Li S(1), Hua M(1), Qu D(1), Shao Z(2), 
Sun Y(3).

Author information:
(1)Institute of Special Animal and Plant Sciences, Chinese Academy of 
Agricultural Sciences, Changchun, China.
(2)College of Chinese Medicinal Materials, Jilin Agricultural University, 
Changchun, China.
(3)Institute of Special Animal and Plant Sciences, Chinese Academy of 
Agricultural Sciences, Changchun, China. Electronic address: 
sunyinshi2015@163.com.

Ginsenoside Rk1, a saponin component produced by heat-processed ginseng, 
possesses anti-inflammatory and antitumor activities. The aim of our study was 
to explore the effects of Rk1 on Lipopolysaccharide (LPS)-induced 
depression-like behavior in mice and to observe its effects on oxidative stress, 
the inflammatory response and brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) - 
tropomyosin-related kinase B (TrkB) signaling. After mice were pretreated with 
Rk1 (5, 10, and 20 mg/kg), the immobility time in both the forced swimming test 
(FST) and the tail suspension test (TST) was reduced, suggesting that Rk1 
effectively improved depression-like symptoms. Rk1 (10 and 20 mg/kg) and 
Fluoxetine (Flu, 20 mg/kg) increased the activity of the antioxidant enzyme SOD 
in the brain and protected against lipid peroxidation. Different concentrations 
of Rk1 (10 and 20 mg/kg) and Flu significantly decreased the levels of tumor 
necrosis factor (TNF)-α and interleukin (IL)-1 in serum, while Rk1 (5, 10, and 
20 mg/kg) and Flu reduced the concentrations of IL-6 in a dose-dependent manner. 
Western blot analysis showed that the administration of Rk1 (20 mg/kg) and Flu 
significantly downregulated the level of Sirt1 and that Rk1 (5, 10, and 
20 mg/kg) and Flu inhibited the p-NF-κb/NF-κb and p-IκB-α/IκB-α ratios, which 
indicated that the neuroprotective effect of Rk1 may be related to the 
suppression of inflammation. In addition 5, 10 and 20 mg/kg Rk1 significantly 
attenuated the LPS-induced decreases in BDNF and TrkB. These results indicated 
that Rk1 acts as an antidepressant through its antioxidant activity, the 
inhibition of neuroinflammation, and the positive regulation of the BDNF-TrkB 
pathway. This study may help develop active ginsenoside-based compounds for 
neurodegenerative diseases.

Copyright © 2020 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.bbrc.2020.07.098
PMID: 32768191 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
declare no conflicts of interest.


261. Biomed Res Int. 2020 Jun 24;2020:3903125. doi: 10.1155/2020/3903125.
eCollection  2020.

Beneficial Effects of Crocin against Depression via Pituitary Adenylate 
Cyclase-Activating Polypeptide.

Lu L(1), Wu D(1), Wang K(1), Tang J(1), Chen G(2)(3).

Author information:
(1)School of Medicine and Holistic Integrative Medicine, Nanjing University of 
Chinese Medicine, Nanjing 210023, China.
(2)Interdisciplinary Institute for Personalized Medicine in Brain Disorders, and 
Research Center for Formula and Syndromes, Jinan University, Guangzhou 510632, 
China.
(3)Co-innovation Center of Neuroregeneration, Nantong University, Nantong, 
Jiangsu 226001, China.

Depression is one of the foremost psychological illness, and the exact mechanism 
is unclear. Recent studies have reported that the pituitary adenylate 
cyclase-activating polypeptide (PACAP) signaling pathway is involved in the 
progression of depression. In the present study, we extracted crocin from the 
traditional Chinese medicine (TCM), Gardenia jasminoides Ellis, to evaluate its 
antidepressant effect and clarify the underlying mechanism. Here, we established 
a chronic unpredictable mild stress (CUMS) mouse model to assess whether crocin 
can improve depression-like behavior in an open field test (OFT), tail 
suspension test (TST), forced swimming test (FST), and sucrose preference test 
(SPT). A corticosterone (CORT) model of PC12 was set up to explore the 
antidepressant mechanism of crocin. We pretreated PC12 cells with crocin for 1 
hour and then stimulated the cells with CORT for 24 hours. Cell survival was 
detected by Hoechst staining and MTT assay. The expression of PACAP, cyclic 
adenosine monophosphate (cAMP) response element binding protein (CREB), and 
extracellular regulated protein kinases (ERK) were analyzed by western blotting. 
PACAP RNAi was used to interfere with PC12 cells to downregulate the content of 
PACAP. The results showed that crocin (30 mg/kg) significantly reversed the 
decrease of body weight and elevation of serum CORT, mitigated CUMS induced 
depression-like behaviors of mice, and crocin (12.5 μmol/L) protected PC12 cells 
against CORT (200 μmol/L)-induced injury. Furthermore, crocin greatly increased 
the protein expression of PACAP and phosphorylation of ERK and CREB in the CORT 
model. PACAP RNAi cancelled the neuroprotective effect of crocin. In conclusion, 
these results indicated that crocin exerted an antidepressant effect via 
upregulating PACAP and its downstream ERK and CREB signaling pathways.

Copyright © 2020 Linyu Lu et al.

DOI: 10.1155/2020/3903125
PMCID: PMC7334775
PMID: 32685478 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that they have no conflicts 
of interest.


262. Neurochem Int. 2020 Oct;139:104797. doi: 10.1016/j.neuint.2020.104797. Epub
2020  Jul 9.

Subthreshold doses of guanosine plus ketamine elicit antidepressant-like effect 
in a mouse model of depression induced by corticosterone: Role of GR/NF-κB/IDO-1 
signaling.

Camargo A(1), Dalmagro AP(2), M Rosa J(3), B Zeni AL(2), P Kaster M(1), Tasca 
CI(1), S Rodrigues AL(4).

Author information:
(1)Neuroscience Postgraduate Program, Center of Biological Sciences, 
Universidade Federal de Santa Catarina, Florianópolis, 88040-900, SC, Brazil; 
Department of Biochemistry, Center of Biological Sciences, Universidade Federal 
de Santa Catarina, Florianópolis, 88040-900, SC, Brazil.
(2)Laboratory of Evaluation of Bioactive Substances, Department of Natural 
Sciences, Universidade Regional de Blumenau, CEP 89030-903, Blumenau, SC, 
Brazil.
(3)Department of Biochemistry, Center of Biological Sciences, Universidade 
Federal de Santa Catarina, Florianópolis, 88040-900, SC, Brazil.
(4)Neuroscience Postgraduate Program, Center of Biological Sciences, 
Universidade Federal de Santa Catarina, Florianópolis, 88040-900, SC, Brazil; 
Department of Biochemistry, Center of Biological Sciences, Universidade Federal 
de Santa Catarina, Florianópolis, 88040-900, SC, Brazil. Electronic address: 
ana.l.rodrigues@ufsc.br.

Augmentative treatment is considered the best second-option when a first-choice 
drug has partial limitations, particularly by allowing antidepressant dose 
reduction. Considering that ketamine has significant knock-on effects, this 
study investigated the effects of a single coadministration with subthreshold 
doses of ketamine plus guanosine in a corticosterone (CORT)-induced animal model 
of depression and the role of anti-inflammatory and antioxidant pathways. CORT 
administration (20 mg/kg, p.o. for 21 days) increased the immobility time in the 
tail suspension test (TST) and the grooming latency in the splash test (SPT), as 
well as reduced the total time of grooming in the SPT. These behavioral 
alterations were accompanied by impaired hippocampal slices viability, elevated 
immunocontent of nuclear factor-kappa B (NF-κB) and indoleamine-2,3-dioxygenase 
1 (IDO-1), and reduced immunocontent of glucocorticoids receptor (GR), glutamate 
transporter (GLT-1), nuclear factor-erythroid 2-related factor 2 (Nrf2), and 
heme oxygenase-1 (HO-1) in the hippocampus. CORT also decreased the thioredoxin 
reductase activity in the hippocampus, while reduced the glutathione reductase 
activity and non-protein thiols levels in both hippocampus and prefrontal 
cortex. In addition, elevated content of malondialdehyde and protein carbonyl 
was also observed in the hippocampus and prefrontal cortex of CORT-treated mice. 
Of note, a single administration of ketamine (0.1 mg/kg, i.p.) plus guanosine 
(0.01 mg/kg, p.o.) attenuated the depressive-like behavior and hippocampal 
slices impairments induced by CORT. The behavioral response obtained by the 
combined administration of these drugs was paralleled by the reestablishment of 
the CORT-induced molecular alterations on hippocampal GR, NF-κB, IDO-1, and 
GLT-1 immunocontent. Moreover, CORT-induced alterations on the antioxidant 
enzyme activity and oxidative stress markers were partially restored by ketamine 
plus guanosine treatment. Taken together, these findings suggest that guanosine 
might potentiate the effects of ketamine on inflammatory and oxidative markers 
that are elevated in depression.

Copyright © 2020 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.neuint.2020.104797
PMID: 32652267 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


263. Neurosci Lett. 2020 Sep 14;735:135232. doi: 10.1016/j.neulet.2020.135232.
Epub  2020 Jul 1.

Effects of resveratrol on the levels of ATP, 5-HT and GAP-43 in the hippocampus 
of mice exposed to chronic unpredictable mild stress.

Shen JD(1), Zhang YW(1), Wang BY(2), Bai L(1), Lu SF(1), Zhu LL(1), Bai M(2), Li 
YC(3), Xu EP(4).

Author information:
(1)College of Pharmacy, Henan University of Chinese Medicine, Zhengzhou 450046, 
PR China.
(2)Henan Key Laboratory for Modern Research on Zhongjing's Herbal Formulae, 
Academy of Chinese Medical Sciences, Henan University of Chinese Medicine, 
Zhengzhou 450046, PR China.
(3)Henan Key Laboratory for Modern Research on Zhongjing's Herbal Formulae, 
Academy of Chinese Medical Sciences, Henan University of Chinese Medicine, 
Zhengzhou 450046, PR China. Electronic address: Liyucheng@hactcm.edu.cn.
(4)Henan Key Laboratory for Modern Research on Zhongjing's Herbal Formulae, 
Academy of Chinese Medical Sciences, Henan University of Chinese Medicine, 
Zhengzhou 450046, PR China. Electronic address: Xuerping0371@163.com.

Growing evidence suggested that energy deficiency might be involved in the 
pathophysiological mechanism of depression. Energy deficiency, mainly results 
from mitochondrial damage, can lead to the dysfunction of synaptic 
neurotransmission, and further cause depressive-like behavior. The 
antidepressant effect of resveratrol had been widely demonstrated in previous 
studies; however, the underlying mechanism remains poorly understood. The 
present study aimed to investigate whether the antidepressant effects of 
resveratrol involved in the energy levels and neurotransmission in the 
hippocampus. We found that resveratrol and fluoxetine significantly attenuated 
depressive-like behaviors induced by chronic unpredictable mild stress (CUMS), 
which evidenced by the increased sucrose preference and the reduced immobility 
time in a forced swimming test. In addition, resveratrol increased hippocampal 
ATP levels, decreased Na+-K+-ATPase and pyruvate levels, and upregulated the 
levels of mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA), mRNA expression of sirtuin (SIRT)1 and 
peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor γ coactivator (PGC)1α. Furthermore, 
resveratrol and fluoxetine increased serotonin (5-HT) levels and downregulated 
the mRNA expression of 5-HT transporter (SERT) in the hippocampus. The decreased 
protein expression of growth-associated protein (GAP)-43 induced by CUMS was 
also ameliorated by resveratrol and fluoxetine. These findings demonstrated the 
antidepressant effects of resveratrol and suggested that resveratrol was able to 
promote mitochondrial biogenesis, enhance ATP and 5-HT levels, as well as 
upregulate GAP-43 expression in the hippocampus.

Copyright © 2020 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.neulet.2020.135232
PMID: 32621948 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


264. Pharmacol Biochem Behav. 2020 Sep;196:172971. doi:
10.1016/j.pbb.2020.172971.  Epub 2020 Jun 23.

Cholecalciferol abolishes depressive-like behavior and hippocampal 
glucocorticoid receptor impairment induced by chronic corticosterone 
administration in mice.

Camargo A(1), Dalmagro AP(2), Platt N(1), F Rosado A(1), B Neis V(1), B Zeni 
AL(2), P Kaster M(1), S Rodrigues AL(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Biochemistry, Center of Biological Sciences, Universidade 
Federal de Santa Catarina, Florianópolis 88040-900, SC, Brazil.
(2)Department of Natural Sciences, Center of Exact and Natural Sciences, 
Universidade Regional de Blumenau, CEP 89030-903 Blumenau, Santa Catarina, 
Brazil.
(3)Department of Biochemistry, Center of Biological Sciences, Universidade 
Federal de Santa Catarina, Florianópolis 88040-900, SC, Brazil. Electronic 
address: alsrodri@gmail.com.

Several attempts have been made to understand the role of cholecalciferol 
(vitamin D3) in the modulation of neuropsychiatric disorders. Notably, the 
deficiency of vitamin D3 is considered a pandemic and has been postulated to 
enhance the risk of major depressive disorder (MDD). Therefore, this study aims 
to investigate the antidepressant-like effect of cholecalciferol in a mouse 
model of depression induced by corticosterone, and the possible role of 
glucocorticoid receptors (GR), NLRP3 and autophagic pathways in this effect. 
Corticosterone administration (20 mg/kg, p.o., for 21 days) significantly 
increased the immobility time and grooming latency, as well as reduced the total 
time spent grooming in mice subjected to the tail suspension test (TST) and 
splash test (ST), respectively. Importantly, these behavioral alterations were 
associated with reduced GR immunocontent in the hippocampus of mice. Conversely, 
the repeated administration of cholecalciferol (2.5 μg/kg, p.o.) in the last 
7 days of corticosterone administration was effective to prevent the increased 
immobility time in the TST and the reduced time spent grooming in the ST, and 
partially abolished the increase in the grooming latency induced by 
corticosterone, suggesting its antidepressant-like effect. These behavioral 
effects were similar to those exerted by fluoxetine (10 mg/kg, p.o.). Moreover, 
the corticosterone-induced reduction on hippocampal GR immunocontent was not 
observed in mice treated with cholecalciferol. Additionally, cholecalciferol 
treatment per se reduced the immunocontent of NLRP3 inflammasome-related 
proteins ASC, caspase-1, and TXNIP in the hippocampus of mice. No alterations on 
hippocampal immunocontent of the autophagic-related proteins phospho-mTORC1, 
beclin-1, and LC3A/B were observed following cholecalciferol treatment and/or 
corticosterone administration. Collectively, our results provide insights into 
the effects of cholecalciferol in depression-related behaviors that seem to be 
related, at least in part, to GR modulation.

Copyright © 2020 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.pbb.2020.172971
PMID: 32585162 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
declare that no financial support or compensation has been received from any 
individual or corporate entity over the past three years for research or 
professional service, and there is no personal financial holding that could be 
perceived as constituting a potential conflict of interest.


265. Brain Struct Funct. 2020 Jul;225(6):1719-1742. doi:
10.1007/s00429-020-02087-6.  Epub 2020 Jun 8.

Glutamic acid decarboxylase 67 haplodeficiency in mice: consequences of 
postweaning social isolation on behavior and changes in brain neurochemical 
systems.

Nullmeier S(1), Elmers C(2), D'Hanis W(2), Sandhu KVK(3), Stork O(3)(4), 
Yanagawa Y(5), Panther P(6), Schwegler H(2).

Author information:
(1)Institute of Molecular and Cellular Anatomy, Ulm University, 
Albert-Einstein-Allee 11, 89081, Ulm, Germany. sven.nullmeier@uni.ulm.de.
(2)Institute of Anatomy, Otto-Von-Guericke University Magdeburg, Leipziger Str. 
44, 39120, Magdeburg, Germany.
(3)Department of Genetics and Molecular Neurobiology, Institute of Biology, 
Otto-Von-Guericke University Magdeburg, Leipziger Str. 44, 39120, Magdeburg, 
Germany.
(4)Center for Behavioral Brain Sciences, Universitätsplatz 2, 39106, Magdeburg, 
Germany.
(5)Department of Genetic and Behavioral Neuroscience, Gunma University Graduate 
School of Medicine, 3-39-22 Showa-machi, Maebashi, Gunma, 371-8511, Japan.
(6)Department of Neurosurgery, Ulm University Medical Center, 
Albert-Einstein-Allee 23, 89081, Ulm, Germany.

Reductions of glutamate acid decarboxylase (GAD67) and subsequent GABA levels 
have been consistently observed in neuropsychiatric disorders like schizophrenia 
and depression, but it has remained unclear how GABAergic dysfunction 
contributes to different symptoms of the diseases. To address this issue, we 
investigated male mice haplodeficient for GAD67 (GAD67+/GFP mice), which showed 
a reduced social interaction, social dominance and increased immobility in the 
forced swim test. No differences were found in rotarod performance and 
sensorimotor gating. We also addressed potential effects of social deprivation, 
which is known, during early life, to affect GABAergic function and induces 
behavioral abnormalities similar to the symptoms found in psychiatric disorders. 
Indeed, social isolation of GAD67+/GFP mice provoked increased rearing activity 
in the social interaction test and hyperlocomotion on elevated plus maze. Since 
GABA closely interacts with the dopaminergic, serotonergic and cholinergic 
neurotransmitter systems, we investigated GAD67+/GFP and GAD67+/+ mice for 
morphological markers of the latter systems and found increased tyrosine 
hydroxylase (TH)-IR fiber densities in CA1 of dorsal hippocampus. By contrast, 
no differences in numbers and densities of TH-positive neurons of the midbrain 
dopamine regions, serotonin (5-HT) neurons of the raphe nuclei, or choline 
acetyltransferase (ChAT)-expressing neurons of basal forebrain and their 
respective terminal fields were observed. Our results indicate that GAD67 
haplodeficiency impairs sociability and increases vulnerability to social 
stress, provokes depressive-like behavior and alters the catecholaminergic 
innervation in brain areas associated with schizophrenia. GAD67+/GFP mice may 
provide a useful model for studying the impact of GABAergic dysfunction as 
related to neuropsychiatric disorders.

DOI: 10.1007/s00429-020-02087-6
PMCID: PMC7321906
PMID: 32514634 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no competing financial 
interests or potential conflicts of interest.


266. Behav Genet. 2020 Sep;50(5):374-383. doi: 10.1007/s10519-020-10003-1. Epub
2020  Jun 5.

Effects of Chronic Caffeine Administration on Behavioral and Molecular 
Adaptations to Sensory Contact Model Induced Stress in Adolescent Male Mice.

Ibrahim MK(1), Kamal M(2)(3), Tikamdas R(4)(3), Nouh RA(4), Tian J(5), Sayed 
M(6)(7).

Author information:
(1)Department of Developmental Pharmacology, National Organization for Drug 
Control and Research (NODCAR), Giza, Egypt.
(2)Pharmacology and Biochemistry Department, Faculty of Pharmacy, The British 
University in Egypt (BUE), El-Sherouk City, Cairo, Egypt.
(3)Center of Drug Research and Development (CDRD), Faculty of Pharmacy, The 
British University in Egypt (BUE), El-Sherouk City, Cairo, Egypt.
(4)Clinical Pharmacy Practice Department, Faculty of Pharmacy, The British 
University in Egypt (BUE), El-Sherouk City, P.O. Box 43, Cairo, Egypt.
(5)Department of Biomedical Sciences & Marshall Institute of Interdisciplinary 
Research (MIIR), Marshall University, Huntington, WV, USA.
(6)Clinical Pharmacy Practice Department, Faculty of Pharmacy, The British 
University in Egypt (BUE), El-Sherouk City, P.O. Box 43, Cairo, Egypt. 
helmy.mostafa@bue.edu.eg.
(7)Center of Drug Research and Development (CDRD), Faculty of Pharmacy, The 
British University in Egypt (BUE), El-Sherouk City, Cairo, Egypt. 
helmy.mostafa@bue.edu.eg.

Previous studies have shown that caffeine attenuates stress-induced mood 
dysfunction and memory deterioration through neuronal adenosine A2A receptors 
antagonism. However, whether caffeine exerts this effect through modulating 
other molecular targets, which interfere with the resilience to social defeat 
stress in adolescent male mice is unknown. This study was conducted to 
investigate the role of caffeine in the behavioral responses to social stress 
induced by the sensory contact model (SCM) and the possible alteration of the 
gene expression level of Na/K ATPase pump. Adolescent male mice were exposed to 
SCM for 12 days. Caffeine was administered intraperitoneal daily for 14 days 
after SCM. The time spent in interaction zone, social interaction ratio, 
preference index to novel objects, time spent in the open arms and immobility 
time in forced swimming test were used to measure the locomotor activity, social 
avoidance, short-term memory, anxiety and depression in mice. The results showed 
that chronic treatment with caffeine for 14 days improved locomotor activity, 
reversed the avoidance of social behavior, improved preference to novel objects, 
and reversed depression induced by social defeat stress in adolescent male mice, 
suggesting the enhancement of the resilience to social defeat stress induced by 
caffeine. Moreover, caffeine treatment did alter gene expression levels of Na/K 
ATPase isoforms in both prefrontal cortex and hippocampus. Altered gene 
expression was significant in most cases and correlates with the observed 
behavioral changes. Taken together, our findings provide new insight into the 
effects of chronic caffeine administration on locomotor activity, social 
avoidance, short-term memory and depression in adolescent male mice exposed to 
SCM.

DOI: 10.1007/s10519-020-10003-1
PMID: 32504257 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


267. Int J Mol Sci. 2020 Jun 1;21(11):3984. doi: 10.3390/ijms21113984.

Reduction in BDNF from Inefficient Precursor Conversion Influences Nest Building 
and Promotes Depressive-Like Behavior in Mice.

Kojima M(1)(2)(3), Otabi H(4), Kumanogoh H(1)(2), Toyoda A(4), Ikawa M(5), Okabe 
M(5), Mizui T(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Biomedical Research Institute, National Institute of Advanced Industrial 
Science and Technology (AIST), 1-8-31 Midorioka, Ikeda, Osaka 563-8577, Japan.
(2)Core Research for Evolutional Science and Technology (CREST), Kawaguchi 
332-0012, Japan.
(3)Graduate School of Frontier Bioscience, Osaka University, Suita 565-0871, 
Japan.
(4)College of Agriculture, Ibaraki University, Ami, Ibaraki 300-0393, Japan.
(5)Research Institute for Microbial Diseases, Osaka University, Suita, Osaka 
5650871, Japan.

We generated a knock-in mouse line in which the gene encoding brain-derived 
neurotrophic factor (Bdnf) was replaced with a sequence for proBDNF containing 
human single nucleotide polymorphisms encoding arginines proximal to the 
cleavage site (R125M and R127L). The ratio of the mature form of BDNF (mBDNF) to 
precursor BDNF (proBDNF) in hippocampal tissue lysates was decreased in a manner 
dependent on the number of copies of the mutant gene, indicating that the 
mutations inhibited proteolytic conversion of proBDNF into mBDNF. Although 
homozygous mice had a proBDNF/mBDNF ratio of ~9:1, they survived until 
adulthood. The levels of mBDNF were reduced by 57% in heterozygous mutant mice, 
which exhibited a depressive-like behavior in the tail suspension test and 
weight gain when housed in social isolation, showing that impaired proBDNF 
cleavage contributes to stress-induced depressive-like phenotypes. Furthermore, 
socially isolated heterozygous mice displayed a pronounced deficit in daily 
nest-building behaviors. These findings suggest that the decreased production of 
mBDNF by impaired proBDNF cleavage disturbs daily activities in mice.

DOI: 10.3390/ijms21113984
PMCID: PMC7312902
PMID: 32492978 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


268. Brain Res Bull. 2020 Aug;161:158-165. doi:
10.1016/j.brainresbull.2020.05.008.  Epub 2020 May 26.

The selenocompound 1-methyl-3-(phenylselanyl)-1H-indole attenuates 
depression-like behavior, oxidative stress, and neuroinflammation in 
streptozotocin-treated mice.

Bampi SR(1), Casaril AM(1), Fronza MG(1), Domingues M(1), Vieira B(2), Begnini 
KR(3), Seixas FK(3), Collares TV(3), Lenardão EJ(2), Savegnago L(4).

Author information:
(1)Postgraduate Program in Biotechnology, Neurobiotechnology Research Group, 
Center of Biotechnology, Federal University of Pelotas, RS, Brazil.
(2)Postgraduate Program in Chemistry, Laboratory of Clean Organic Synthesis, 
Center of Chemical, Pharmaceutical and Food Sciences, Federal University of 
Pelotas, RS, Brazil.
(3)Postgraduate Program in Biotechnology, Molecular and Cellular Oncology 
Research Group, Center of Biotechnology, Federal University of Pelotas, RS, 
Brazil.
(4)Postgraduate Program in Biotechnology, Neurobiotechnology Research Group, 
Center of Biotechnology, Federal University of Pelotas, RS, Brazil. Electronic 
address: luciellisavegnago@yahoo.com.br.

Major depressive disorder (MDD) is a chronic mental illness affecting a wide 
range of people worldwide. The pathophysiology of MDD is not completely 
elucidated, but it is believed that oxidative stress and neuroinflammation are 
involved. In light with this, the aim of the present study was to investigate 
whether a single administration of the antioxidant 
1-methyl-3-(phenylselanyl)-1H-indole (MFSeI) was able to reverse the 
streptozotocin-induced depression-like behavior, oxidative stress, and 
neuroinflammation in mice. MFSeI (10 mg/kg) was administered intragastrically 
(i.g.) 24 h after the intracerebroventricular injection of STZ (0.2 mg/4 μL/per 
mouse). Thirty minutes after MFSeI administration, behavioral tests and 
neurochemical analyses were performed. Fluoxetine (10 mg/kg, i.g.) was used as a 
positive control. MFSeI and fluoxetine were able to reverse the STZ-induced 
depression-like behavior, as evidenced by decreased immobility time in the 
forced swimming test and increased grooming time in the splash test. 
Mechanistically, MFSeI reversed the increased levels of reactive species and 
lipid peroxidation in the prefrontal cortices and hippocampi of STZ-treated 
mice. Additionally, neuroinflammation (i.e. expression of NF-κB, IL-1β, and 
TNF-α) and the reduced mRNA levels of BDNF in the and hippocampi of depressed 
mice were reversed by treatment with MFSeI. Fluoxetine did not improve the 
STZ-induced alterations at the levels of reactive species, NF-κB and BDNF in the 
prefrontal cortices neither the levels of TNF-α in both brain regions. Together, 
these data suggest that the MFSeI may be a promising compound with 
antidepressant-like action, reducing oxidative stress and modulating 
inflammatory pathways in the brain of depressed mice.

Copyright © 2020 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.brainresbull.2020.05.008
PMID: 32470357 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


269. Physiol Behav. 2020 Sep 1;223:112965. doi: 10.1016/j.physbeh.2020.112965.
Epub  2020 May 23.

Treading water: mixed effects of high fat diet on mouse behavior in the forced 
swim test.

Lloyd KR(1), Reyes TM(2).

Author information:
(1)University of Cincinnati, College of Medicine, Department of Pharmacology and 
Systems Physiology.
(2)University of Cincinnati, College of Medicine, Department of Pharmacology and 
Systems Physiology. Electronic address: reyesta@ucmail.uc.edu.

Diet is an environmental factor with significant potential to affect the brain 
and behavior in both positive and negative ways. Work in animals is necessary to 
understand this relationship and how it may apply to mental health in humans. 
One area which has been investigated extensively is whether diet, specifically a 
high fat diet (HFD), can alter behavior in tasks, such as the forced swim test 
(FST) that assess stress coping. Therefore, we sought to analyze the literature 
regarding the effect of HFD on performance in the FST to determine whether there 
was a consistent effect of HFD on stress coping behavior. We conducted a Google 
Scholar search of English-language articles with the following terms: high fat 
diet, obesity, forced swim test, depression like behavior, mouse. Thirty studies 
from twenty-five publications are included in this survey. Fifteen studies were 
found where HFD had no effect on FST, 4 where HFD decreased immobility, and 11 
where HFD increased immobility. Experimental details in these studies varied 
widely, including differences in the diet, mice, and experimental design. 
Additionally, we analyzed thirteen studies that performed the tail-suspension 
test (TST) after HFD, with six studies finding no change due to HFD and 7 
reporting that HFD increased immobility. Further, 6 of these studies used both 
FST and TST with largely similar results in the two tasks, indicating 
concordance between the two tests of stress-coping behavior. We conclude that 
due to widely varying experimental details across studies no consistent effect 
of high fat diet on stress coping behavior can be determined at this point.

Copyright © 2020 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.physbeh.2020.112965
PMID: 32454140 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


270. Front Psychiatry. 2020 Apr 30;11:335. doi: 10.3389/fpsyt.2020.00335.
eCollection  2020.

Analysis of the Gut Microbiota and Inflammatory Factors in mGluR5-Knockout Mice.

Cai G(1), Zhu Y(1), Chen J(2), Zhao S(1), Wang L(1), Wang M(1), Huang J(1), Wu 
S(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurobiology, School of Basic Medicine, Fourth Military Medical 
University, Xi'an, China.
(2)Department of Anatomy, School of Basic Medicine, Fourth Military Medical 
University, Xi'an, China.

INTRODUCTION: Accumulating evidence indicates that the glutamatergic system 
plays an important role in the development of depression. Notably, the 
antidepressant effect of metabotropic glutamate receptor 5 (mGluR5) modulation 
is inconsistent across studies. Here, we attempted to identify the involvement 
of the gut microbiota and inflammation in mGluR5-/- mice.
METHODS: mGluR5-/- mice and their wild-type littermates were used in our study. 
We used the open field (OF) and elevated plus maze (EPM) tests to assess 
anxiety-like behaviors, and we used the two-day forced swim test (FST) and tail 
suspension test (TST) to test despair-like behaviors. 16S rDNA was used to 
analyze the gut microbiota. Enzyme-linked immunosorbent assays (ELISAs) were 
used to measure the levels of inflammatory factors. Western blotting was used to 
detect the levels of various proteins.
RESULTS: mGluR5-/- mice had no significant increase or decrease of despair-like 
behavior in the absence of stress exposure. However, mGluR5-/- mice exhibited 
despair-like behaviors following stress exposure. No significant changes in 
other glutamate receptors or representative synaptic proteins were detected in 
the prefrontal cortex (PFC) or hippocampus of mGluR5-/- mice. Very similar 
bacterial groups were observed in mGluR5-/- mice and wild-type controls. In 
addition, there was no significant difference in the α-diversity of the 
microbiota between mGluR5-/- mice and wild-type controls. The levels of all 
measured cytokines (IL-1β, IL-2, IL-4, IL-6, IL-10, and TNF-α) did not change 
significantly in the PFCs or colons of mGluR5-/- mice.
CONCLUSION: In conclusion, we deduced that mGluR5-/- mice are susceptible to 
despair-like behavior. The systemic knockout of mGluR5 did not affect the gut 
microbiota or inflammatory factors in mice.

Copyright © 2020 Cai, Zhu, Chen, Zhao, Wang, Wang, Huang and Wu.

DOI: 10.3389/fpsyt.2020.00335
PMCID: PMC7203659
PMID: 32425829


271. Neurosci Lett. 2020 Jun 11;729:135006. doi: 10.1016/j.neulet.2020.135006.
Epub  2020 May 5.

Social defeat stress-induced hyperalgesia is mediated by nav 1.8(+) nociceptive 
fibers.

Pagliusi M Jr(1), Bonet IJM(2), Lemes JBP(1), Oliveira ALL(1), Carvalho NS(1), 
Tambeli CH(1), Parada CA(1), Sartori CR(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Structural and Functional Biology, State University of 
Campinas, Rua Monteiro Lobato, 255, Cidade Universitaria Zeferino Vaz, Box 6109, 
Campinas, SP 13083-865, Brazil.
(2)Department of Oral and Maxillofacial Surgery,University of California San 
Francisco, 513 Parnassus Ave, Box 0440 S709, San Francisco, CA 94143, United 
States.
(3)Department of Structural and Functional Biology, State University of 
Campinas, Rua Monteiro Lobato, 255, Cidade Universitaria Zeferino Vaz, Box 6109, 
Campinas, SP 13083-865, Brazil. Electronic address: sartoric@unicamp.br.

Recently the voltage-gated sodium (Nav) channels began to be studied as possible 
targets for analgesic drugs. In addition, specific Nav 1.8 blockers are 
currently being used to treat some types of chronic pain pathologies such as 
neuropathies and fibromyalgia. Nav 1.8+ fibers convey nociceptive information to 
brain structures belonging to the limbic system, which is involved in the 
pathophysiology of major depressive disorders. From this, using a model of 
chronic social defeat stress (SDS) and intrathecal injections of Nav 1.8 
antisense, this study investigated the possible involvement of Nav 1.8+ 
nociceptive fibers in SDS- induced hyperalgesia in C57/BL mice. Our results 
showed that SDS induced a depressive-like behavior of social avoidance and 
increased the sensitivity to mechanical (electronic von Frey test) and chemical 
(capsaicin test) nociceptive stimuli. We also showed that intrathecal injection 
of Nav 1.8 antisense reversed the SDS-induced hyperalgesia as demonstrated by 
both, mechanical and chemical nociceptive tests. We confirmed the antisense 
efficacy and specificity in a separate no-defeated cohort through real-time PCR, 
which showed a significant reduction of Nav 1.8 mRNA and no reduction of Nav 1.7 
and Nav 1.9 in the L4, L5 and L6 dorsal root ganglia (DRG). The present study 
advances the understanding of SDS-induced hyperalgesia, which seems to be 
dependent on Nav 1.8+ nociceptive fibers.

Copyright © 2020 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.neulet.2020.135006
PMID: 32387758 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of Competing Interest The authors 
declare no conflict of interest.


272. Behav Brain Res. 2020 Jun 18;388:112643. doi: 10.1016/j.bbr.2020.112643.
Epub  2020 Apr 24.

Apocynin as an antidepressant agent: in vivo behavior and oxidative parameters 
modulation.

Pereira GC(1), Piton E(2), Dos Santos BM(1), da Silva RM(2), de Almeida AS(1), 
Dalenogare DP(1), Schiefelbein NS(3), Fialho MFP(4), Moresco RN(5), Dos Santos 
GT(1), Marchesan S(4), Bochi GV(6).

Author information:
(1)Center of Health Sciences, Department of Physiology and Pharmacology, Federal 
University of Santa Maria, Santa Maria, RS, Brazil; Center of Health Sciences, 
Postgraduate Program in Pharmacology, Federal University of Santa Maria, Santa 
Maria, RS, Brazil.
(2)Center of Health Sciences, Department of Physiology and Pharmacology, Federal 
University of Santa Maria, Santa Maria, RS, Brazil.
(3)Center of Rural Sciences, Postgraduate Program in Food Sciences and 
Technology, Federal University of Santa Maria, Santa Maria, RS, Brazil.
(4)Center of Natural and Exact Sciences, Postgraduate Program in Biological 
Sciences: Toxicological Biochemistry, Federal University of Santa Maria, Santa 
Maria, RS, Brazil.
(5)Laboratory of Clinical Biochemistry, Department of Clinical and Toxicological 
Analysis, Federal University of Santa Maria, Santa Maria, RS, Brazil.
(6)Center of Health Sciences, Department of Physiology and Pharmacology, Federal 
University of Santa Maria, Santa Maria, RS, Brazil; Center of Health Sciences, 
Postgraduate Program in Pharmacology, Federal University of Santa Maria, Santa 
Maria, RS, Brazil. Electronic address: guilherme.bochi@ufsm.br.

Depression is one of the most common mood disorders, which affects one in six 
people at some point in life. However, the treatment of this disease is still a 
challenge. Chronic corticosterone administration (CCA) is a widely used animal 
model to study the mechanisms involved, as well as possible therapeutic 
strategies for the treatment of depression. Moreover, elevated oxidative stress 
has been observed in psychiatric disorders, including major depression and, in 
this context, antioxidant therapy may be a potential therapeutic alternative. In 
this study, we investigated the effect of seven days of treatment with apocynin, 
an antioxidant of natural origin, on depressive-like behavior and oxidative 
parameters in mice submitted to CCA. After 21 days of corticosterone 
administration (20 mg/Kg/day, subcutaneously, s.c.), we observed the development 
of depressive-like behavior with an increase in immobility time on tail 
suspension test and forced swimming test and reduction in total grooming time on 
splash test. Also, we found high superoxide dismutase activity and hydrogen 
peroxide levels whereas catalase activity was reduced in the prefrontal cortex, 
hippocampus and striatum. Seven days of treatment with apocynin (100 mg/Kg/day 
orally, p.o), performed immediately after corticosterone administration in the 
last week of protocol, was able to reverse the most of these changes, revealing 
its antidepressant-like effect. In conclusion, our results suggest apocynin as 
an antidepressant-like agent with a mechanism of action based on the attenuation 
of oxidative changes induced by CCA.

Copyright © 2020 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.bbr.2020.112643
PMID: 32339552 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of Competing Interest The authors 
declare they have no conflict of interest.


273. J Basic Clin Physiol Pharmacol. 2020 Apr 
22;31(4):/j/jbcpp.2020.31.issue-4/jbcpp-2019-0016/jbcpp-2019-0016.xml. doi: 
10.1515/jbcpp-2019-0016.

Attenuation of oxidative stress and neurotoxicity involved in the 
antidepressant-like effect of the MK-801(dizocilpine) in Bacillus 
Calmette-Guerin-induced depression in mice.

Rana P(1), Bagewadi H(2), Banerjee BD(2), Bhattacharya SK(2), Mediratta PK(2).

Author information:
(1)ABVIMS and Dr RML Hospital, Department of Pharmacology, New Delhi, India.
(2)University College of Medical Sciences, Dilshard Garden, Delhi 110094, India.

Background The emerging line of research suggests that neuro-inflammation and 
oxidative stress are linked to the development of depression-like behavior. The 
tryptophan metabolizing enzyme, indolamine 2,3-dioxygenase (IDO), serves as an 
important interface between chronic inflammation and depression. IDO is induced 
by pro-inflammatory cytokines and diverts tryptophan towards the kynurenine 
pathway, decreasing serotonin synthesis. Further, the metabolites of kynurenine 
pathway increase brain oxidative stress and also cause N-methyl-D-aspartate 
(NMDA) receptor-mediated exitotoxicity. The resulting oxidative damage and 
dysfunction in glutamatergic neurotransmission alters the network connectivity 
of the brain, which may be the further mechanism for emergence of 
depression-like symptoms. Methods A depression-like illness was induced in mice 
by injecting Bacillus Calmette-Guerin (BCG) suspended in isotonic saline at a 
dose of 107 CFU I.P. The mice were then divided into different groups and were 
administered MK-801 or normal saline for the next 21 days, after which a battery 
of behavior and biochemical tests were conducted to assess them. Results The BCG 
group had significantly reduced sucrose preference index and an increase in 
immobility time in forced swim test (FST) and Tail Suspension Test (TST) as 
compared to the saline group. There was also a significant increase in the brain 
MDA levels and a decline in the brain GSH levels. The hippocampal tissue from 
the BCG group had significantly more comet cells than the saline group. The NMDA 
receptor antagonist, MK-801, was able to reverse the BCG-induced depression-like 
behaviour. MK-801 also showed significant decrease in brain oxidative stress but 
failed to show significant protection against BCG-induced neurotoxicity observed 
in comet assay. Conclusions The NMDA receptor antagonist, MK-801, mitigated 
BCG-induced, depressive-like behavior in mice by improving the sucrose 
preference and decreasing the duration of immobility time in TST and FST. The 
overall improvement in depression-like behavior was accompanied by a reduction 
in brain oxidative stress and comet cells, thus suggesting the antioxidant and 
neuroprotective action of MK-801.

DOI: 10.1515/jbcpp-2019-0016
PMID: 32324160 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


274. Life Sci. 2020 Jul 1;252:117669. doi: 10.1016/j.lfs.2020.117669. Epub 2020
Apr  13.

Ginsenoside Rg1 ameliorates chronic social defeat stress-induced depressive-like 
behaviors and hippocampal neuroinflammation.

Jiang N(1), Lv J(1), Wang H(1), Huang H(1), Wang Q(2), Lu C(3), Zeng G(1), Liu 
XM(4).

Author information:
(1)Research Center for Pharmacology and Toxicology, Institute of Medicinal Plant 
Development (IMPLAD), Chinese Academy of Medical Sciences and Peking Union 
Medical College, Beijing 100193, China.
(2)Affiliated TCM Hospital/School of Pharmacy/Sino-Portugal TCM International 
Cooperation Center, Southwest Medical University, Luzhou 646000, China.
(3)Institute of Food Science and Technology, Chinese Academy of Agricultural 
Sciences (CAAS), Beijing 100193, China.
(4)Research Center for Pharmacology and Toxicology, Institute of Medicinal Plant 
Development (IMPLAD), Chinese Academy of Medical Sciences and Peking Union 
Medical College, Beijing 100193, China. Electronic address: 
liuxinmin@hotmail.com.

Chronic social defeat stress (CSDS) is an ethologically relevant psychosocial 
stress animal model and has been widely used in depression studies. Ginsenoside 
Rg1 (Rg1) is the major active ingredients of ginseng with low toxicity and 
neuroprotective effects. The present study aims to investigate the 
antidepressant effects of Rg1 in CSDS mice and explore its molecular mechanism. 
We found that Rg1 (20 or 40 mg/kg, i.g.) administration significantly alleviated 
depressive-like behaviors caused by 4-week CSDS exposure, as measured by social 
interaction test and sucrose preference test, tail suspension test and forced 
swim test. Additionally, Rg1 treatment inhibited CSDS-induced production of 
IL-6, TNF-α and IL-1β, decreased the expression of iNOS, COX2, and caspase-9 and 
-3, and inhibited microglial activation (Iba1) in the hippocampus. Rg1 was found 
to significantly downregulate p-JNK1/2 and p-P38 MAPK levels, upregulate 
p-ERK1/2 levels and inhibit the expression of phosphorylated NF-κB in the 
hippocampus. Meanwhile, Rg1 regulated SIRT1 and decreased the levels of 
acetylated p65 (ac-p65) in the hippocampus. Moreover, the reduction in adult 
hippocampal neurogenesis in CSDS mice was reversed by Rg1 treatment. In 
conclusion, our findings suggest that Rg1 prevents depressive-like behavior in 
CSDS-exposed mice, partially through the downregulation of hippocampal 
neuroinflammation and the upregulation of adult hippocampal neurogenesis and 
that these changes presumably occur through increased anti-inflammatory effects 
and the inhibition of proinflammatory cytokine and neurotoxic mediator 
expression and microglial activation, which is partly mediated by the regulation 
of the MAPK and SIRT1 signaling pathways and results in the inhibition of NF-κB 
transcriptional activity.

Copyright © 2020. Published by Elsevier Inc.

DOI: 10.1016/j.lfs.2020.117669
PMID: 32298740 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest No conflict of 
interest exits in the submission of this manuscript, and manuscript is approved 
by all authors for publication. I would like to declare on behalf of my 
co-authors that the work described was original research that has not been 
published previously, and not under consideration for publication elsewhere, in 
whole or in part. All the authors listed have approved the manuscript that is 
enclosed.


275. Zhongguo Ying Yong Sheng Li Xue Za Zhi. 2019 Nov;35(6):496-500. doi: 
10.12047/j.cjap.5852.2019.108.

[Dihydromyricetin ameliorates chronic social defeat stress induced cognitive and 
affective disorder in mice].

[Article in Chinese]

Wang L(1)(2), Li BR(1)(2), Xiao ZY(1)(2), Zhao JL(1)(2), Yu XD(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Basic medical school, Shao yang University, Shao yang 422000.
(2)The First Affiliated Hospital, University of South, Hengyang 421001, China.

OBJECTIVE: To investigated the effects of dihydromyricetin on cognitive and 
affective disorders induced by chronic social defeat stress and its possible 
mechanism in mice.
METHODS: C57BL/6J mice were randomly divided into control group (Control), 
chronic social defeat stress group (CSDS) and chronic social defeat stress + DHM 
group (CSDS+DHM) (14 mice in each group). The mice received chronic social 
defeat stress and were injected with DHM or vehicle intraperitoneally. A part of 
mice were subjected to (10 mice of each group) novel object recognition test 
(NOR), Y maze test, open field test (OFT), social interaction test (SIT), forced 
swimming test (FST) and tail suspension test (TST). The other mice (4 mice of 
each group) were decapitated and the expression levels of SIRT1 in hippocampus 
were detected by Western blot.
RESULTS: Compared with the control group, the learning and memory of the CSDS 
group were reduced significantly, the anxiety level was increased significantly, 
the immobility time in TST and FST was increased significantly, and the SIRT1 
protein level in hippocampus was reduced significantly (P＜ 0.05 or P＜ 0.01); 
Compared with the CSDS group, the learning and memory of the CSDS + DHM group 
were improved significantly, the anxiety level of the mice was reduced 
significantly, and the immobility time in TST and FST was reduced significantly. 
The protein level of SIRT1 in hippocampus was increased significantly (P＜ 0.05 
or P＜ 0.01).
CONCLUSION: DHM ameliorates the cognitive impairment, anxiety like behavior and 
depression like behavior of mice induced by CSDS and up-regulates the expression 
of SIRT1 protein.

DOI: 10.12047/j.cjap.5852.2019.108
PMID: 32239851 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


276. Brain Sci. 2020 Mar 25;10(4):193. doi: 10.3390/brainsci10040193.

Hippocampal and Cerebellar Changes in Acute Restraint Stress and the Impact of 
Pretreatment with Ceftriaxone.

Amin SN(1)(2), Hassan SS(3)(4), Khashaba AS(5), Youakim MF(4), Latif NSA(6), 
Rashed LA(7), Yassa HD(8).

Author information:
(1)Department of Basic Medical Sciences, Faculty of Medicine, Hashemite 
University, Zarqa 13133, Jordan.
(2)Department of Medical Physiology, Faculty of Medicine, Cairo University, 
Cairo 11451, Egypt.
(3)Department of Medical Education, School of Medicine, California University of 
Science & Medicine, San Bernardino, CA 82408, USA.
(4)Department of Anatomy, Faculty of Medicine, Cairo University, Cairo 11451, 
Egypt.
(5)Department of Basic Sciences, Riyadh Elm University, Riyadh 12734, Saudi 
Arabia.
(6)Department of Medical Pharmacology, Faculty of Medicine, Cairo University 
Cairo 11451, Egypt.
(7)Department of Biochemistry, Faculty of Medicine, Cairo University, Cairo 
11451, Egypt.
(8)Department of Anatomy and Embryology, Faculty of Medicine, Beni-Suef 
University, Beni Suef 62511, Egypt.

Acute restraint stress (ARS) is an unavoidable stress situation and may be 
encountered in different clinical situations. The aim of the current study was 
to investigate the effects of ARS on the hippocampus and cerebellum, assess the 
impact of these effects on the behavior and cognitive function, and determine 
whether pretreatment with ceftriaxone would attenuate the damages produced by 
ARS on the hippocampus and cerebellum. Four groups of male mice were included in 
this study: The control group, ARS group, ceftriaxone group, and ARS + 
ceftriaxone group. Tail suspension test, Y-maze task, and open field tests were 
used to assess depression, working spatial memory, and anxiety. The biochemical 
analyses included measurements of serum cortisol, tumor necrotic factor (TNF), 
interleukin-6, hippocampal expression of bone morphogenetic protein 9 (BMP9), 
lysosomal-associated membrane protein 1 (LAMP1), glutamate transporter 1 (GLT1), 
heat shock protein 90, cerebellar expression of S100 protein, glutamic acid 
decarboxylase (GAD), and carbon anhydrase. Histopathological examination of the 
brain sections was conducted on the hippocampus and cerebellum by hematoxylin 
and eosin stains in addition to ultrastructure evaluation using electron 
microscopy. Our results suggested that ceftriaxone had neuroprotective 
properties by attenuating the effects of ARS on the hippocampus and cerebellum 
in mice. This effect was demonstrated by the improvement in the cognitive and 
behavioral tests as well as by the preservation of the hippocampal and 
cerebellar architecture.

DOI: 10.3390/brainsci10040193
PMCID: PMC7225952
PMID: 32218213

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


277. Int J Environ Res Public Health. 2020 Mar 19;17(6):2042. doi: 
10.3390/ijerph17062042.

Impacts of Aerobic Exercise on Depression-Like Behaviors in Chronic 
Unpredictable Mild Stress Mice and Related Factors in the AMPK/PGC-1α Pathway.

Luo J(1)(2), Tang C(2), Chen X(3), Ren Z(4), Qu H(5), Chen R(2), Tong Z(2).

Author information:
(1)Key Laboratory of Kinesiology Evaluation and Recovery of General 
Administration of Sport of China, Sports Science institute of Hunan, Changsha 
410012, China.
(2)Department of Physical Education, Hunan Normal University, Changsha 410012, 
China.
(3)Department of Sports and Health, Guangzhou Sport University, Guangzhou 
510500, China.
(4)Department of Physical Education, Shenzhen University, Shenzhen 518060, 
China.
(5)Department of Physical Education, Yichun College, Yichun 336000, China.

This study was to study the impact of aerobic exercises on the chronic 
unpredictable mild stress (CUMS) in mice, and to discuss the possible mechanism 
from the skeletal muscle AMPK/PGC-1α energy metabolism signaling pathway. The 
healthy male mice were randomly divided into Control Group (CG), Model Group 
(MG), and Model Exercise Group (ME).Twelve stress methods were adopted for four 
weeks (28 days) to establish the depression model. ME was subject to aerobic 
training plan after the model was established. The weight of the mice was 
recorded weekly. After the experimental intervention, the three groups of mice 
were subjected to behavioral assessment tests. Western blotting, RT-PCR, and 
ELISA were performed to test AMPK, p-AMPK, PGC-1α, and ATP in skeletal muscle. 
There were no significant difference in body weight between the three groups. 
CUMS leaded to significant decline in behavioral scores. and the p-AMPK and 
PGC-1α decreased significantly. But boosted ATP content. Aerobic exercise 
enhanced the expressions of p-AMPK and PGC-1α, increased the ratio of 
p-AMPK/AMPK, boosted ATP content. And improved behavioral scores significantly. 
Chronic stress-induced depression-like behavior was improved significantly by 
Aerobic exercise. The mechanism of aerobic exercise for improving depressive 
symptoms in mice with chronic stress depression may be related to influence 
AMPK/PGC-1α pathway.

DOI: 10.3390/ijerph17062042
PMCID: PMC7142893
PMID: 32204452 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


278. J Pharmacol Sci. 2020 Jun;143(2):97-105. doi: 10.1016/j.jphs.2020.02.007.
Epub  2020 Feb 29.

Post-weaning folate deficiency induces a depression-like state via neuronal 
immaturity of the dentate gyrus in mice.

Nishida S(1), Araki R(2), Baba A(1), Asari S(1), Tachibana S(1), Nakajima Y(1), 
Iwakumo A(1), Yabe T(3).

Author information:
(1)Laboratory of Functional Biomolecules and Chemical Pharmacology, Faculty of 
Pharmaceutical Sciences, Setsunan University, 45-1 Nagaotoge-cho, Hirakata, 
Osaka 573-0101, Japan.
(2)Laboratory of Functional Biomolecules and Chemical Pharmacology, Faculty of 
Pharmaceutical Sciences, Setsunan University, 45-1 Nagaotoge-cho, Hirakata, 
Osaka 573-0101, Japan. Electronic address: r-araki@pharm.setsunan.ac.jp.
(3)Laboratory of Functional Biomolecules and Chemical Pharmacology, Faculty of 
Pharmaceutical Sciences, Setsunan University, 45-1 Nagaotoge-cho, Hirakata, 
Osaka 573-0101, Japan. Electronic address: yabe@pharm.setsunan.ac.jp.

Folate deficiency has been suggested as a risk factor for depression in 
preclinical and clinical studies. Several hypotheses of mechanisms underlying 
folate deficiency-induced depressive symptoms have been proposed, but the 
detailed mechanisms are still unclear. In this study, we assessed whether 
post-weaning folate deficiency affect neurological and psychological function. 
The low folate diet-fed mice showed depression-like behavior in the forced swim 
test. In contrast, spontaneous locomotor activity, social behavior, coordinated 
motor skills, anxiety-like behavior and spatial memory did not differ between 
control and low folate diet-fed mice. In the dentate gyrus (DG) of the 
hippocampus, decreased number of newborn mature neurons and increased number of 
immature neurons were observed in low folate diet-fed mice. Staining with 
Golgi-Cox method revealed that dendritic complexity, spine density and the 
number of mature spines of neurons were markedly reduced in the DG of low folate 
diet-fed mice. Stress response of neurons indicated as c-Fos expression was also 
reduced in the DG of low folate diet-fed mice. These results suggest that 
reduction in the degree of maturation of newborn hippocampal neurons underlies 
folate deficiency-induced depressive symptoms.

Copyright © 2020 The Authors. Production and hosting by Elsevier B.V. All rights 
reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jphs.2020.02.007
PMID: 32173264 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of Competing Interest The authors 
declare that there is no conflict of interest regarding the contents of this 
paper.


279. Horm Behav. 2020 Jun;122:104741. doi: 10.1016/j.yhbeh.2020.104741. Epub 2020
Mar  16.

Hypothalamus-pituitary-adrenal axis imbalance and inflammation contribute to sex 
differences in separation- and restraint-induced depression.

Dong Y(1), Wang X(2), Zhou Y(3), Zheng Q(3), Chen Z(3), Zhang H(3), Sun Z(3), Xu 
G(3), Hu G(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Medical Care, School of Nursing, Nanjing University of Chinese 
Medicine, Nanjing 210023, China. Electronic address: dongyf@njucm.edu.cn.
(2)Department of Neurosurgery, Shanghai Jiao Tong University Affiliated 6th 
People's Hospital, Shanghai 200233, China.
(3)Department of Medical Care, School of Nursing, Nanjing University of Chinese 
Medicine, Nanjing 210023, China.
(4)Department of Pharmacology, School of Medicine and Life Sciences, Nanjing 
University of Chinese Medicine, Nanjing 210023, China. Electronic address: 
ghu@njmu.edu.cn.

Whether social contact contributes to the underlying mechanisms of depression 
and the observed sex differences is unclear. In this study, we subjected young 
male and female mice to separation- and restraint-induced stress for 4 weeks and 
assessed behaviors, neurotransmitter levels, hormones, and inflammatory 
cytokines. Results showed that, compared with controls, male mice exposed to 
stress displayed significant decreases in body weight and sucrose preference 
after 1 week. In the fourth week, they exhibited a higher degree of anxiety 
(open field test) and depressive-like behavior (forced swim test). Moreover, the 
males showed significant decreases in monoamine neurotransmitters, including 
norepinephrine and dopamine in striatum, and an increase in pro-inflammatory 
cytokines, such as tumor necrosis factor α and interleukin 1β in serum. In 
contrast, females showed persistent loss of weight during stress and displayed 
significant decreases in sucrose preference after stress. Importantly, the 
females but not males showed activation of the hypothalamus-pituitary-adrenal 
(HPA) axis, with significantly higher levels adrenocorticotropic hormone. 
Additionally, mRNA level of c-fos and AVP showed there was significant 
interaction between stress and sex. Finally, we conclude that an imbalance of 
the HPA axis and inflammation might be important contributors to sex differences 
in separation/restraint-induced depressive behavior and that changes might be 
mediated by c-fos and AVP.

Copyright © 2020 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.yhbeh.2020.104741
PMID: 32165183 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
declare that they have no competing interests.


280. Physiol Behav. 2020 Jun 1;220:112862. doi: 10.1016/j.physbeh.2020.112862.
Epub  2020 Mar 7.

Impaired emotional response to stress in mice lacking galectin-1 or galectin-3.

Sartim AG(1), Sartim MA(2), Cummings RD(3), Dias-Baruffi M(4), Joca SR(5).

Author information:
(1)Department of Biomolecular Sciences, School of Pharmaceutical Science of 
Ribeirão Preto, University of São Paulo, Ribeirão Preto, SP, Brazil.
(2)Basic and Applied Immunology Graduate Program, Institute of Biological 
Sciences, Federal University of Amazonas, Manaus, AM, Brazil.
(3)Department of Surgery, Beth Israel Deaconess Medical Center, Harvard Medical 
School, 3 Blackfan Circle, Room 11087, Boston, MA, 02115, United States.
(4)Department of Clinical Analyses, Toxicology and Food Sciences, School of 
Pharmaceutical Sciences of Ribeirão Preto, University of São Paulo. Ribeirão 
Preto, SP, Brazil. Electronic address: mdbaruff@fcfrp.usp.br.
(5)Department of Biomolecular Sciences, School of Pharmaceutical Science of 
Ribeirão Preto, University of São Paulo, Ribeirão Preto, SP, Brazil; Aarhus 
Institute of Advanced Studies (AIAS), Aarhus University, Aarhus Denmark. 
Electronic address: samia@usp.br.

Galectin-1 (Gal-1) and galectin-3 (Gal-3) are multifunctional glycan-binding 
proteins, expressed in the brain and in its limbic structures that are involved 
in behavioral control. Gal-1 induces the expression of the brain-derived 
neurotrophic factor (BDNF) and promotes adult neural stem cells proliferation, 
biological events impaired in stress-related psychiatric disorders, such as 
depression and anxiety. Despite that, there is no evidence regarding galectin 
involvement in emotional control during stressful situations. Thus, we analyzed 
the behavioral phenotype of Gal-1 or Gal-3 knock-out mice (Gal-1 KO or Gal-3 KO) 
in different experimental models predictive of depressive and compulsive-like 
behaviors.
METHODS: C57BL-6 Gal-1 KO, Gal-3 KO, and wild-type mice (WT) were analyzed under 
the open field test (OFT) and, 6 h later, under the forced swim test (FST). 
Additionally, independent groups of male mice, lacking galectins or not, were 
exposed to the tail suspension test (TST) or to the marble burying test (MBT). 
The hippocampus and prefrontal cortex (PFC) of the mice submitted to MBT were 
dissected to access BDNF levels.
RESULTS: Both Gal-1 and Gal-3 KO mice showed increased time of immobility in the 
FST and in the TST compared to WT animals, thus reflecting an impaired 
stress-coping behavior. Additionally, Gal-1 and Gal-3 KO female mice presented 
increased compulsive-like behavior in the MBT, without significant changes in 
the locomotor activity. BDNF levels were found to be decreased in the PFC of 
Gal-1 KO mice.
DISCUSSION: Our results demonstrate that the absence of either endogenous Gal-1 
and Gal-3 impairs stress-coping and increases compulsive-like behavior, 
suggesting that Gal-1 and Gal-3 are involved in the neurobiology of depression 
and obsessive-compulsive-like disorder.

Copyright © 2020 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.physbeh.2020.112862
PMID: 32156558 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Conflicts of Interest The authors declare no 
conflict of interest.


281. Neuropsychopharmacology. 2020 Sep;45(10):1717-1724. doi: 
10.1038/s41386-020-0652-9. Epub 2020 Mar 8.

Rislenemdaz treatment in the lateral habenula improves despair-like behavior in 
mice.

Lei T(1)(2), Dong D(3), Song M(1), Sun Y(2), Liu X(1), Zhao H(4)(5).

Author information:
(1)Neuroscience Research Center, First Hospital of Jilin University, Changchun, 
130021, PR China.
(2)Department of Physiology, College of Basic Medical Sciences, Jilin 
University, Changchun, 130021, PR China.
(3)Department of Nephrology, First Hospital of Jilin University, Changchun, 
130021, PR China.
(4)Neuroscience Research Center, First Hospital of Jilin University, Changchun, 
130021, PR China. zhua@jlu.edu.cn.
(5)Department of Physiology, College of Basic Medical Sciences, Jilin 
University, Changchun, 130021, PR China. zhua@jlu.edu.cn.

The specific GluN2B antagonist rislenemdaz (Ris; a.k.a. MK-0657 and CERC-301) is 
in phase II clinical trial as an antidepressive drug, but the working mechanism 
for its antidepressant effects is not clearly understood. Given the important 
role of the lateral habenula (LHb) in the pathogenesis of depression and the 
fact that GluN2B-containing N-methyl-D-aspartate receptors and brain-derived 
neurotrophic factor (BDNF) are expressed in the LHb, we conducted a study to 
examine whether the LHb mediates Ris' antidepressant effects in a chronic 
restraint stress (CRS)-induced depressive-like mouse model. In this study, Ris 
was administered systemically or locally into the LHb. Short hairpin RNAs were 
used to knockdown BDNF in the LHb. Depressive-like behaviors were assessed with 
the open field test, forced swimming test, tail suspension test, and sucrose 
preference test. Expression of GluN2B, BDNF, and c-Fos in the LHb were analyzed 
with western blotting and immunohistochemistry under condition with Ris 
administered systemically or with BDNF knockdown in the LHb. We found that both 
systemic and intra-LHb administration of Ris alleviated CRS-induced despair-like 
behavior and that systemic Ris reduced LHb expression of GluN2B, BDNF, and c-Fos 
(a neuronal activity marker). Specific knockdown of BDNF in the LHb prevented 
CRS-induced despair-like behavior, while preventing CRS-induced increases in 
BDNF and c-Fos expression in the LHb. Together these results suggest that Ris 
may exert its antidepressant effects through affecting the LHb such as 
downregulating BDNF expression in the LHb.

DOI: 10.1038/s41386-020-0652-9
PMCID: PMC7419533
PMID: 32147667 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


282. Int J Mol Sci. 2020 Mar 3;21(5):1724. doi: 10.3390/ijms21051724.

Melatonin Modulates Dendrite Maturation and Complexity in the Dorsal- and 
Ventral- Dentate Gyrus Concomitantly with Its Antidepressant-Like Effect in Male 
Balb/C Mice.

Ramírez-Rodríguez GB(1), Palacios-Cabriales DM(1), Ortiz-López L(1), 
Estrada-Camarena EM(2), Vega-Rivera NM(2).

Author information:
(1)Laboratory of Neurogenesis, Division of Clinical Investigations, National 
Institute of Psychiatry "Ramón de la Fuente Muñiz", Calzada Mexico-Xochimilco 
No. 101, Mexico City C.P. 14370, Mexico.
(2)Laboratory of Neuropsychopharmacology, Division of Neurosciences, National 
Institute of Psychiatry "Ramón de la Fuente Muñiz", Calzada Mexico-Xochimilco 
No. 101, Mexico City C.P. 14370, Mexico.

Adult neurogenesis occurs in the dentate gyrus (DG) of the hippocampus. New 
neurons help to counteract the effects of stress and several interventions 
including antidepressant drugs, environmental modifications and internal factors 
act pro-neurogenic with consequences in the dorsal and ventral DG. Melatonin, 
the main product synthesized by the pineal gland, induces antidepressant-like 
effects and modulates several events of the neurogenic process. However, the 
information related to the capability of melatonin to modulate dendrite 
maturation and complexity in the dorsal and ventral regions of the DG and their 
correlation with its antidepressant-like effect is absent. Thus, in this study, 
we analyzed the impact of melatonin (0, 0.5, 1, 2.5, 5 or 10 mg/kg) administered 
daily for fourteen days on the number, dendrite complexity and distribution of 
doublecortin (DCX)-cells in the dorsal-ventral regions of the DG in male Balb/C 
mice. Doublecortin is a microtubule-associated protein that is expressed during 
the course of dendritic maturation of newborn neurons. Also, we analyzed the 
impact of melatonin on despair-like behavior in the forced swim test. We first 
found a significant increase in the number and higher dendrite complexity, 
mainly with the doses of 2.5, 5 and 10 mg/kg of melatonin (81%, 122%, 78%). 
These cells showed more complex dendritic trees in the ventral- and the dorsal- 
DG. Concomitantly, the doses of 5 and 10 mg/kg of melatonin decreased 
depressant-like behavior (76%, 82%). Finally, the data corroborate the 
antidepressant-like effect of melatonin and the increasing number of 
doublecortin-associated cells. Besides, the data indicate that melatonin favors 
the number and dendrite complexity of DCX-cells in the dorsal- and ventral- 
region of the DG, which may explain part of the antidepressant-like effect of 
melatonin.

DOI: 10.3390/ijms21051724
PMCID: PMC7084558
PMID: 32138332 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


283. FASEB J. 2020 Apr;34(4):5715-5723. doi: 10.1096/fj.201902871R. Epub 2020 Mar
1.

Prolyl-hydroxyproline, a collagen-derived dipeptide, enhances hippocampal cell 
proliferation, which leads to antidepressant-like effects in mice.

Nogimura D(1), Mizushige T(1), Taga Y(2), Nagai A(1), Shoji S(1), Azuma N(1), 
Kusubata M(2), Adachi SI(3), Yoshizawa F(1), Kabuyama Y(1).

Author information:
(1)School of Agriculture, Utsunomiya University, Utsunomiya, Japan.
(2)Nippi Research Institute of Biomatrix, Toride, Japan.
(3)Center for Bioscience Research and Education, Utsunomiya University, 
Utsunomiya, Japan.

Depression has been a mental health issue worldwide. We previously reported that 
ginger-degraded collagen hydrolysate (GDCH) suppressed depression-like behavior 
in mice. Furthermore, prolyl-hydroxyproline (PO) and hydroxyprolyl-glycine (OG) 
were detected in the circulating blood after the oral administration of GDCH. In 
the present study, PO, but not OG, was detected in the cerebrospinal fluid of 
rats after the oral administration of GDCH, suggesting that PO is transported 
from blood to the brain. We then investigated the effects of PO and OG on the 
depression-like behavior of mice. The oral administration of PO significantly 
decreased depression-like behavior in the forced swim test. OG had no 
antidepressant-like effect. In addition, proline and hydroxyproline, components 
of PO, also had no antidepressant-like effect after their oral administration. 
PO significantly increased the gene expression of brain-derived neurotrophic 
factor and nerve growth factor in the hippocampus, and promoted the 
proliferation of neural progenitor cells in vivo and in vitro. PO also increased 
the dopamine concentration in the prefrontal cortex. Thus, PO-dependent 
regulation of neurotrophic function and neurotransmitter may be the mechanism 
for antidepressant-like behavior. Together, these results demonstrate that PO is 
an antidepressant bioactive peptide accompanying the proliferation of 
hippocampal neural progenitor cells.

© 2020 The Authors. The FASEB Journal published by Wiley Periodicals, Inc. on 
behalf of Federation of American Societies for Experimental Biology.

DOI: 10.1096/fj.201902871R
PMID: 32115749 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


284. Psychopharmacology (Berl). 2020 Jun;237(6):1633-1642. doi: 
10.1007/s00213-020-05487-y. Epub 2020 Feb 24.

Blockade of NOP receptor modulates anxiety-related behaviors in mice exposed to 
inescapable stress.

Silva AI(1), Holanda VAD(1), Azevedo Neto JG(1), Silva Junior ED(1), 
Soares-Rachetti VP(1), Calo G(2), Ruzza C(2), Gavioli EC(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Biophysics and Pharmacology, Federal University of Rio Grande 
do Norte, Av. Sen. Salgado Filho, 3000, Lagoa Nova, Natal, 59078-970, Brazil.
(2)Department of Medical Sciences, Section of Pharmacology, and National 
Institute of Neuroscience, University of Ferrara, Ferrara, Italy.
(3)Department of Biophysics and Pharmacology, Federal University of Rio Grande 
do Norte, Av. Sen. Salgado Filho, 3000, Lagoa Nova, Natal, 59078-970, Brazil. 
egavioli@hotmail.com.

RATIONALE: Depression and anxiety frequently co-occur, and this has important 
clinical implications. Previous studies showed that activation of the 
nociceptin/orphanin FQ receptor (NOP) elicits anxiolytic effects, while its 
blockade promotes consistent antidepressant actions. NOP antagonists are 
effective in reversing footshock-induced depressive-like behaviors, but their 
effects on stress-induced anxiety are still unclear.
OBJECTIVE: This study aimed to investigate the effects of the NOP antagonist 
SB-612111 on footshock stress-induced anxiety behaviors.
METHODS: Male Swiss mice were exposed to inescapable electric footshock stress, 
and behavioral phenotype was screened based on the ability to escape from 
footshock (i.e., helpless or non-helpless). Animals were then treated with 
diazepam (1 mg/kg) and SB-612111 (0.1-10 mg/kg), and their behavior was assessed 
in the elevated plus-maze (EPM) and open field test.
RESULTS: When compared with non-stressed mice, helpless, but not non-helpless, 
animals displayed significant reductions in the time spent in and entries into 
open arms in the EPM. Diazepam significantly increased open arms exploration in 
helpless, non-helpless, and non-stressed mice. However, treatment with the NOP 
antagonist SB-612111 was inactive in naive mice, while it reversed 
anxiogenic-related behaviors in helpless mice and increased anxiety states in 
non-helpless mice. No effects on locomotion were observed.
CONCLUSION: Helpless mice displayed increased anxiety compared to non-stressed 
and non-helpless animals, thus supporting use of this approach as an animal 
model to investigate anxiety/depression comorbidity. Additionally, SB-612111 
modulated anxiety-like behaviors in male mice depending on individual stress 
susceptibility. Ultimately, NOP antagonists could be useful for treating anxiety 
in depressed patients.

DOI: 10.1007/s00213-020-05487-y
PMID: 32095915 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


285. Front Pharmacol. 2020 Jan 31;10:1674. doi: 10.3389/fphar.2019.01674.
eCollection  2019.

Uwhangchungsimwon, A Standardized Herbal Drug, Exerts an Anti-Depressive Effect 
in a Social Isolation Stress-Induced Mouse Model.

Oh HM(1), Lee JS(2), Kim SW(1), Oh YT(1), Kim WY(2), Lee SB(2), Cho YR(2), Jeon 
YJ(2), Cho JH(2), Son CG(2).

Author information:
(1)College of Korean Medicine, Daejeon University, Daejeon, South Korea.
(2)Liver and Immunology Research Center, Daejeon Korean Medicine Hospital of 
Daejeon University, Daejeon, South Korea.

INTRODUCTION: Uwhangchungsimwon (UCW) is one of the most representative 
standardized herbal drugs for the treatment of central nervous system diseases, 
including mood disorders, and has been used for over 600 years in Korea and 
China. In spite of the long clinical application of UCW, no experimental 
evidence for its use against depressive disorders exists. Here, we performed an 
animal study to investigate the anti-depressive effect of UCW and the underlying 
mechanisms.
METHODS: A social isolation-induced depressive-like model was produced using 
C57BL/6J male mice by housing the mice individually for 31 days, and the mice 
underwent daily oral administration of distilled water, UCW (100, 200, 400 
mg/kg) or fluoxetine (20 mg/kg) during the final 17 days. A tail suspension test 
(TST), forced swimming test (FST), and open field test (OFT) were used to 
explore the effects of UCW on depressive-like behaviors. 5-Hydroxytryptamine 
(5-HT) was measured in the dorsal raphe nuclei (DRN) using immunofluorescence. 
The serum corticosterone level was measured with its receptor and catecholamine, 
along with cAMP response element-binding protein (CREB) and brain-derived 
neurotrophic factor (BDNF) in the hippocampus.
RESULTS: Social isolation stress effectively induced depressive-like behaviors, 
and UCW treatment significantly improved the symptoms of depressive-like 
behavior in the FST, TST, and OFT. The isolation stress-induced depletion of 
5-HT was significantly ameliorated by UCW treatment. UCW also attenuated the 
activation of the glucocorticoid receptor (GR) and the elevated serum 
corticosterone level, as well as the hippocampal levels of dopamine and 
norepinephrine. Dexametasone-derived translocation of GR was inhibited by UCW 
treatment in PC12 cells and HT22 cells. In addition, alterations of tryptophan 
hydroxylase 2 (TPH2), BDNF, and CREB in the protein analyses were notably 
regulated by UCW treatment.
CONCLUSIONS: These results provide animal-based evidence for the anti-depressive 
effect of UCW, and its underlying mechanisms may involve regulating the 
serotonergic system, the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis, and 
neurotrophin.

Copyright © 2020 Oh, Lee, Kim, Oh, Kim, Lee, Cho, Jeon, Cho and Son.

DOI: 10.3389/fphar.2019.01674
PMCID: PMC7005224
PMID: 32082167


286. Front Behav Neurosci. 2020 Jan 30;13:289. doi: 10.3389/fnbeh.2019.00289. 
eCollection 2019.

Preference for Exercise vs. More Sedentary Reinforcers: Validation of an Animal 
Model of Tetrabenazine-Induced Anergia.

Carratalá-Ros C(1), López-Cruz L(1), SanMiguel N(1), Ibáñez-Marín P(1), 
Martínez-Verdú A(1), Salamone JD(2), Correa M(1).

Author information:
(1)Àrea de Psicobiologia, Campus de Riu Sec, Universitat Jaume I, Castelló de la 
Plana, Spain.
(2)Behavioral Neuroscience Division, University of Connecticut, Storrs, CT, 
United States.

Physical activities can have intrinsic motivational or reinforcing properties. 
The choice to engage in voluntary physical activity is undertaken in relation to 
the selection of other alternatives, such as sedentary behaviors, drugs, or food 
intake. The mesolimbic dopamine (DA) system plays a critical role in behavioral 
activation or exertion of effort, and DA antagonism or depletion induces anergia 
in effort-based decision-making tasks. However, little is known about the neural 
mechanisms underlying the decision-making processes that establish preferences 
for sedentary vs. activity-based reinforcers. In the present work with male CD1 
mice, we evaluated the effect of tetrabenazine (TBZ), a DA-depleting agent, on a 
three-choice T-maze task developed to assess preference between reinforcers with 
different behavioral activation requirements and sensory properties [i.e., a 
running wheel (RW) vs. sweet pellets or a neutral nonsocial odor]. We also 
studied the effects of TBZ on the forced swim test (FST), which measures 
climbing and swimming in a stressful setting, and on anxiety tests [dark-light 
(DL) box and elevated plus maze (EPM)]. In the three-choice task, TBZ reduced 
time running in the wheel but increased time spent consuming sucrose, thus 
indicating reduced activation but relatively intact sucrose reinforcement. The 
effect of TBZ was not mimicked by motivational manipulations that change the 
value of the reinforcers, such as making the RW aversive or harder to move, 
food-restricting the animals, inducing a binge-like eating pattern, or 
introducing social odors. In the FST, TBZ decreased time climbing (most active 
behavior) and increased immobility but did not affect anxiety in the DL or EPM. 
These results indicate that the three-choice T-maze task could be useful for 
assessing DA modulation of preferences for exercise based on activation and 
effort requirements, differentiating those effects from changes in preference 
produced by altering physical requirements, food restriction state, and stress 
during testing.

Copyright © 2020 Carratalá-Ros, López-Cruz, SanMiguel, Ibáñez-Marín, 
Martínez-Verdú, Salamone and Correa.

DOI: 10.3389/fnbeh.2019.00289
PMCID: PMC7002319
PMID: 32082126


287. Physiol Behav. 2020 May 15;219:112847. doi: 10.1016/j.physbeh.2020.112847.
Epub  2020 Feb 18.

Sex-dependent effects of chronic variable stress on discrete 
corticotropin-releasing factor receptor 1 cell populations.

Rosinger ZJ(1), De Guzman RM(1), Jacobskind JS(1), Saglimbeni B(1), Malone M(1), 
Fico D(1), Justice NJ(2), Forni PE(3), Zuloaga DG(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychology, University at Albany, Albany, NY 12222, United 
States.
(2)Center for Metabolic and Degenerative Diseases, Institute of Molecular 
Medicine, University of Texas Health Sciences Center, Houston, TX, United 
States.
(3)Department of Biological Sciences, The RNA Institute, and the Center for 
Neuroscience Research, University at Albany, State University of New York, 
Albany, NY 12222, United States.
(4)Department of Psychology, University at Albany, Albany, NY 12222, United 
States. Electronic address: dzuloaga@albany.edu.

Anxiety and depression are strikingly more prevalent in women compared with men. 
Dysregulation of corticotropin-releasing factor (CRF) binding to its cognate 
receptor (CRFR1) is thought to play a critical role in the etiology of these 
disorders. In the present study, we investigated whether there were sex 
differences in the effects of chronic variable stress (CVS) on CRFR1 cells using 
CRFR1-GFP reporter mice experiencing a 9-day CVS paradigm. Brains were collected 
from CVS and stress naïve female and male mice following exposure to the open 
field test. This CVS paradigm effectively increased anxiety-like behavior in 
female and male mice. In addition, we assessed changes in activation of CRFR1 
cells (co-localization with c-Fos and phosphorylated CREB (pCREB)) in stress 
associated brain structures, including two sexually dimorphic CRFR1 cell groups 
in the anteroventral periventricular nucleus (AVPV/PeN; F>M) and paraventricular 
hypothalamus (PVN; M>F). CVS increased CRFR1-GFP cell number as well as the 
number of CRFR1/pCREB co-expressing cells in the female but not male AVPV/PeN. 
In the PVN, the number of CRFR1/pCREB co-expressing cells was overall greater in 
males regardless of treatment and CVS resulted in a male-specific reduction of 
CRFR1/c-Fos cells. In addition, CVS induced a female-specific reduction in 
CRFR1/c-Fos cells within the anteroventral bed nucleus of the stria terminalis 
and both sexes exhibited a reduction in CRFR1/c-Fos co-expressing cells 
following CVS within the ventral basolateral amygdala. Overall, these 
sex-specific effects of CVS on CRFR1 populations may have implications for sex 
differences in stress-induction of mood disorders.

Copyright © 2020 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.physbeh.2020.112847
PMCID: PMC7540729
PMID: 32081812 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


288. Biochem Biophys Res Commun. 2020 Feb 15:S0006-291X(20)30341-7. doi: 
10.1016/j.bbrc.2020.02.073. Online ahead of print.

Comparison of physiological and behavioral responses to chronic restraint stress 
between C57BL/6J and BALB/c mice.

Tsuchimine S(1), Matsuno H(1), O'Hashi K(1), Chiba S(2), Yoshimura A(3), Kunugi 
H(1), Sohya K(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Mental Disorder Research, National Institute of Neuroscience, 
National Center of Neurology and Psychiatry (NCNP), 4-1-1 Ogawa-Higashi, 
Kodaira, Tokyo, 187-8502, Japan.
(2)Department of Mental Disorder Research, National Institute of Neuroscience, 
National Center of Neurology and Psychiatry (NCNP), 4-1-1 Ogawa-Higashi, 
Kodaira, Tokyo, 187-8502, Japan; Faculty of Veterinary Medicine, Okayama 
University of Science, 1-3 Ikoinooka, Imabari, Ehime, 794-8555, Japan.
(3)Department of Mental Disorder Research, National Institute of Neuroscience, 
National Center of Neurology and Psychiatry (NCNP), 4-1-1 Ogawa-Higashi, 
Kodaira, Tokyo, 187-8502, Japan; Education and Research Facility of Animal 
Models for Human Diseases, Research Promotion and Support Headquarters, Fujita 
Health University, 1-98 Kutsukakecho Dengakugakubo, Toyoake, Aichi, 470-1192, 
Japan.
(4)Department of Mental Disorder Research, National Institute of Neuroscience, 
National Center of Neurology and Psychiatry (NCNP), 4-1-1 Ogawa-Higashi, 
Kodaira, Tokyo, 187-8502, Japan. Electronic address: sohya@ncnp.go.jp.

Rodent models of chronic restraint stress (CRS) are often used as simple models 
of depressive disorder. However, these models of stress have been mainly 
developed in rats, and the behavioral phenotypes of CRS models are still 
controversial. In this study, we compared the physiological and behavioral 
responses of C57BL/6J (B6) and BALB/c mice, which are commonly used in genetic 
and behavioral studies, to CRS. In addition to measuring physiological 
parameters and the levels of corticosterone (a stress hormone) in response to 
stress, we also examined changes in the levels of testosterone (an anti-stress 
hormone), which have rarely been studied in stressed mice. The mice were exposed 
to CRS for 6 h a day for 21 days. In both B6 and BALB/c mice, CRS elicited 
several physiological stress responses, including decreased body weight gain and 
changes in the tissue weights of stress-related organs. Accumulated 
corticosterone in the hair was measured, and BALB/c mice had significantly 
greater levels than control mice and B6 mice after CRS. On the other hand, in 
the case of accumulated testosterone in the hair, both B6 mice and BALB/c mice 
showed significantly higher concentrations than control mice, but the degree of 
change was not different between the two strains. In the sucrose preference 
test, BALB/c mice, but not B6 mice, showed anhedonia-like behavior after CRS. 
However, neither strain showed depressive-like behavior in the forced swim or 
tail suspension test. Our results show that the physiological and behavioral 
stress responses of BALB/c mice are greater than those of B6 mice, although 
anti-stress responses to CRS are similar in both strains. This suggests that 
BALB/c mice are likely to be advantageous for use as a CRS-induced depression 
model.

Copyright © 2020. Published by Elsevier Inc.

DOI: 10.1016/j.bbrc.2020.02.073
PMID: 32070493

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest All authors 
declare that they have no conflicts of interest.


289. Behav Pharmacol. 2020 Jun;31(4):397-406. doi: 10.1097/FBP.0000000000000549.

Morus nigra leaves extract revokes the depressive-like behavior, oxidative 
stress, and hippocampal damage induced by corticosterone: a pivotal role of the 
phenolic syringic acid.

Dalmagro AP(1), Camargo A, Pedron NB, Garcia SAM, Zeni ALB.

Author information:
(1)Laboratório de Avaliação de Substâncias Bioativas, Departamento de Ciências 
Naturais, Universidade Regional de Blumenau, Blumenau, Santa Catarina, Brazil.

The pathophysiology of depression includes glucocorticoids excess, glutamatergic 
excitotoxicity, and oxidative stress impairment. Previous study demonstrated 
Morus nigra L. leaves extract and syringic acid (4-hydroxy-3,5-dimethoxybenzoic 
acid), its major phenolic compound, administered orally for 7 days, decreased 
the immobility time in the tail suspension test, without locomotor alteration. 
Therefore, the purpose of this study was to investigate the antidepressant-like 
effects, antioxidant effects, and neuroprotective effects of M. nigra leaves 
extract and syringic acid in an animal model of depression induced by 
corticosterone. Herein, corticosterone administered in male Swiss mice, 
60-90 days of age, at 20 mg/kg, once a day, for 21 days, was effective to induce 
depressive-like phenotype. This alteration was accompanied by the increase of 
oxidative stress markers (lipid peroxidation, nitrite, and protein carbonyl) and 
the decrease in nonprotein thiols level, besides impairment in the hippocampus. 
Conversely, the treatment with M. nigra leaves extract (10 mg/kg), syringic acid 
(1 mg/kg), or fluoxetine (10 mg/kg), administered once a day for the last 7 days 
of the corticosterone treatment, was able to abolish the behavioral alterations 
elicited by corticosterone, reinforcing evidence of the M. nigra leaves extract 
and syringic acid having antidepressant-like effect. Both treatments also 
exerted antioxidant property in the mice's brain, reducing the amount of 
oxidative stress and abolishing the corticosterone-induced damage in the 
hippocampal slices. In addition, the treatments protected the hippocampus 
against the damage induced by the association between corticosterone 
administration and glutamate excess. In conclusion, M. nigra leaves extract and 
syringic acid revoke depressive-like behavior induced by corticosterone via 
inhibition of oxidative stress and hippocampal damage.

DOI: 10.1097/FBP.0000000000000549
PMID: 32040015 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


290. Biotechnol Appl Biochem. 2021 Feb;68(1):52-59. doi: 10.1002/bab.1893. Epub
2020  Feb 7.

The effect of deoxyschizandrin on chronic unpredictable mild stress-induced 
depression.

Ma X(1), Zhu Z(2), Guo S(1), Duan J(1).

Author information:
(1)Jiangsu Collaborative Innovation Center of Chinese Medicinal Resources 
Industrialization, and National and Local Collaborative Engineering Center of 
Chinese Medicinal Resources Industrialization and Formulae Innovative Medicine, 
Nanjing University of Chinese Medicine, Nanjing, China.
(2)Institute of Mental Health, Suzhou Psychiatric Hospital, The Affiliated 
Guangji Hospital of Soochow University, Suzhou, China.

The purpose of the present study was to evaluate the antidepressant effect of 
deoxyschizandrin (DEO) in chronic unpredictable mild stress (CUMS)-induced mice. 
The mice were subjected to CUMS paradigm for 8 weeks. From the sixth week, the 
mice were intragastrically treated with DEO once daily for continuous 3 weeks. 
The behavior tests including sucrose preference test (SPT), forced swimming test 
(FST), tail suspension test (TST), and open field test were conducted. 
Additionally, the expressions of TLR4, MyD88, TRAF6, p-NF-κBp65, NLRP3, cleaved 
caspase-1, cleaved IL-1β, GluR, and PSD95 in hippocampus were detected by 
western blot. The concentrations of IL-6 and TNF-α in hippocampus were 
determined by enzyme linked immune sorbent assay (ELISA). The dendritic spine 
density was observed by Golgi-Cox staining. As a result, the treatment with DEO 
relieved anhedonia in SPT, and reduced immobile duration in FST and TST. DEO 
treatment effectively attenuated the CUMS-caused alterations of TLR4, MyD88, 
TRAF6, p-NF-κBp65, NLRP3, cleaved caspase-1, cleaved IL-1β, GluR, and PSD95. 
Furthermore, DEO could reduce the hippocampal inflammatory cytokine content and 
increase the density of dendritic spine. In conclusion, the present work 
indicated that DEO exhibited antidepressant effect on CUMS-induced depressive 
mice, which was possible due to the TLR4/NF-κB/NLRP3 pathway and the 
amelioration of dendritic spine density through GluR/PSD95 cascade.

© 2020 International Union of Biochemistry and Molecular Biology, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/bab.1893
PMID: 31985079 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


291. Brain Behav. 2020 Mar;10(3):e01526. doi: 10.1002/brb3.1526. Epub 2020 Jan
21.

Effect of early life stress on anxiety and depressive behaviors in adolescent 
mice.

He T(1), Guo C(1), Wang C(1), Hu C(2), Chen H(1).

Author information:
(1)Key Lab of Cognition and Personality of the Ministry of Education, 
Collaborative Innovation Center for Brain Science, School of Psychology, 
Southwest University, Chongqing, China.
(2)Department of Alternative Medicine, No. 9 Chongqing Hospital, Chongqing, 
China.

INTRODUCTION: Adolescence is a critical period for physical and mental 
development. The effect of early life stress on mood disorders has been 
intensively studied in adults using rodent models, but it has been less studied 
in adolescents. The present study aimed to examine the effect of early life 
stress on anxiety-related and depression-like behaviors in adolescent C57BL/6 
mice and the sex difference.
METHODS: C57BL/6 mice of both sexes were used, and early life stressors included 
maternal separation (MS, P2-12, 4 hr per day), restraint stress (RS, P33 to 39, 
4 hr per day), and their combination (MRS). Open field test, elevated plus maze, 
and forced swimming test were performed at different time points during 
adolescence and adulthood.
RESULTS: It was found that MS did not affect the anxiety-related behaviors of 
both males and females tested on P30-31 and P41-42. RS decreased the anxiety 
level in adolescent males but did not affect it in the females. MS, RS, and MRS 
all significantly increased the depression-like behavior in adolescent males, 
but only MRS increased the depression-like behavior in adolescent females. All 
effects on adolescent males and females did not persist into adulthood.
CONCLUSION: The present results showed that early life stress affected 
anxiety-related and depression-like behavior in adolescent mice in manners 
depending on the nature of stress, the developmental period, and sex.

© 2020 The Authors. Brain and Behavior published by Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/brb3.1526
PMCID: PMC7066350
PMID: 31961515 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: None declared.


292. Mol Brain. 2020 Jan 13;13(1):4. doi: 10.1186/s13041-020-0548-y.

Reduced chronic restraint stress in mice overexpressing hyperactive proteasomes 
in the forebrain.

Kim JH(1)(2), Kim A(1)(3), Yun Y(1)(2), Park S(1)(2)(4), Lee JH(1)(2)(4), Lee 
YS(5)(6)(7), Lee MJ(8)(9)(10).

Author information:
(1)Department of Biomedical Sciences, Seoul National University Graduate School, 
Seoul, 03080, Korea.
(2)Department of Biochemistry and Molecular Biology, Seoul National University 
College of Medicine, Seoul, 03080, Korea.
(3)Department of Physiology, Seoul National University College of Medicine, 
Seoul, 03080, Korea.
(4)Neuroscience Research Institute, Seoul National University College of 
Medicine, Seoul, 03080, Korea.
(5)Department of Biomedical Sciences, Seoul National University Graduate School, 
Seoul, 03080, Korea. yongseok7@snu.ac.kr.
(6)Department of Physiology, Seoul National University College of Medicine, 
Seoul, 03080, Korea. yongseok7@snu.ac.kr.
(7)Neuroscience Research Institute, Seoul National University College of 
Medicine, Seoul, 03080, Korea. yongseok7@snu.ac.kr.
(8)Department of Biomedical Sciences, Seoul National University Graduate School, 
Seoul, 03080, Korea. minjlee@snu.ac.kr.
(9)Department of Biochemistry and Molecular Biology, Seoul National University 
College of Medicine, Seoul, 03080, Korea. minjlee@snu.ac.kr.
(10)Neuroscience Research Institute, Seoul National University College of 
Medicine, Seoul, 03080, Korea. minjlee@snu.ac.kr.

While chronic restraint stress (CRS) results in depression-like behaviors 
possibly through oxidative stress in the brain, its molecular etiology and the 
development of therapeutic strategies remain elusive. Since oxidized proteins 
can be targeted by the ubiquitin-proteasome system, we investigated whether 
increased proteasome activity might affect the stress response in mice. 
Transgenic mice, expressing the N-terminally deleted version of α3 subunit 
(α3ΔN) of the proteasome, which has been shown to generate open-gated mutant 
proteasomes, in the forebrain were viable and fertile, but showed higher 
proteasome activity. After being challenged with CRS for 14 d, the mutant mice 
with hyperactive proteasomes showed significantly less immobility time in the 
forced swimming test compared with their wild-type littermates, suggesting that 
the α3ΔN transgenic mice are resistant to CRS. The accumulation of ER stress 
markers, such as polyubiquitin conjugates and phospho-IRE1α, was also 
significantly delayed in the hippocampus of the mutants. Notably, α3ΔN mice 
exhibited little deficits in other behavioral tasks, suggesting that stress 
resilience is likely due to the degradation of misfolded proteins by the 
open-gated proteasomes. These data strongly indicate that not only is the 
proteasome a critical modulator of stress response in vivo but also a possible 
therapeutic target for reducing chronic stress.

DOI: 10.1186/s13041-020-0548-y
PMCID: PMC6958796
PMID: 31931843 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no competing interests.


293. Neuroscience. 2020 Jan 21;428:165-177. doi:
10.1016/j.neuroscience.2019.12.037.  Epub 2020 Jan 9.

Therapeutic and Preventive Effect of Voluntary Running Wheel Exercise on Social 
Defeat Stress (SDS)-induced Depressive-like Behavior and Chronic Pain in Mice.

Pagliusi M Jr(1), Bonet IJM(2), Brandão AF(1), Magalhães SF(1), Tambeli CH(1), 
Parada CA(1), Sartori CR(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Structural and Functional Biology, University of Campinas, SP, 
Brazil.
(2)Department of Oral and Maxillofacial Surgery, University of California San 
Francisco, CA, USA.
(3)Department of Structural and Functional Biology, University of Campinas, SP, 
Brazil. Electronic address: sartoric@unicamp.br.

Major depressive disorders (MDD) and chronic pain (CP) affect significant 
portion of the world's population and have high comorbidity rate. Social defeat 
stress (SDS) model was standardized in mice and can trigger depressive-like 
behavior and chronic pain. Based especially on clinical trials showing an 
effective preventive and therapeutic effect of physical exercise on CP and 
symptoms associated with MDD, this study aimed to investigate if the voluntary 
running wheel exercise can exert these effects in mice submitted to the 10-day 
SDS protocol, using fluoxetine as positive control. For this, we ran two set of 
experiments: in the first set mice started performing voluntary running wheel 
exercise after submitted to SDS and, in the second set, mice performed voluntary 
running wheel exercise before and during SDS. Mechanical and chemical 
hyperalgesia was analyzed through electronic von Frey and capsaicin test, 
respectively. Depressive-like behavior was assessed through social interaction 
test. Our results showed that the voluntary running wheel exercise was more 
effective than fluoxetine reversing the SDS-induced persistent hyperalgesia and 
both, fluoxetine and voluntary running wheel exercise, was effective reversing 
SDS-induced social avoidance. Also, voluntary running wheel exercise is an 
effective tool preventing both hyperalgesia and social avoidance induced by SDS. 
To the best of our knowledge, this was the first study using physical exercise 
as a therapeutic and preventive tool for chronic pain and depressive-like 
behavior simultaneously induced by social stress.

Copyright © 2019 IBRO. Published by Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.neuroscience.2019.12.037
PMID: 31927101 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


294. Elife. 2020 Jan 10;9:e50631. doi: 10.7554/eLife.50631.

Metabolic signature in nucleus accumbens for anti-depressant-like effects of 
acetyl-L-carnitine.

Cherix A(1), Larrieu T(2), Grosse J(2), Rodrigues J(2), McEwen B(3), Nasca C(3), 
Gruetter R(1), Sandi C(2).

Author information:
(1)Laboratory for Functional and Metabolic Imaging (LIFMET), École Polytechnique 
Fédérale de Lausanne (EPFL), Lausanne, Switzerland.
(2)Laboratory of Behavioral Genetics, Brain and Mind Institute, School of Life 
Sciences, Ecole Polytechnique Fédérale de Lausanne, Lausanne, Switzerland.
(3)Harold and Margaret Milliken Hatch Laboratory of Neuroendocrinology, The 
Rockefeller University, New York, United States.

Emerging evidence suggests that hierarchical status provides vulnerability to 
develop stress-induced depression. Energy metabolic changes in the nucleus 
accumbens (NAc) were recently related to hierarchical status and vulnerability 
to develop depression-like behavior. Acetyl-L-carnitine (LAC), a 
mitochondria-boosting supplement, has shown promising antidepressant-like 
effects opening therapeutic opportunities for restoring energy balance in 
depressed patients. We investigated the metabolic impact in the NAc of 
antidepressant LAC treatment in chronically-stressed mice using 1H-magnetic 
resonance spectroscopy (1H-MRS). High rank, but not low rank, mice, as assessed 
with the tube test, showed behavioral vulnerability to stress, supporting a 
higher susceptibility of high social rank mice to develop depressive-like 
behaviors. High rank mice also showed reduced levels of several energy-related 
metabolites in the NAc that were counteracted by LAC treatment. Therefore, we 
reveal a metabolic signature in the NAc for antidepressant-like effects of LAC 
in vulnerable mice characterized by restoration of stress-induced 
neuroenergetics alterations and lipid function.

© 2020, Cherix et al.

DOI: 10.7554/eLife.50631
PMCID: PMC6970538
PMID: 31922486 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: AC, TL, JG, JR, BM, CN, RG, CS No competing 
interests declared


295. Front Behav Neurosci. 2019 Dec 13;13:271. doi: 10.3389/fnbeh.2019.00271. 
eCollection 2019.

High Salt Intake Lowers Behavioral Inhibition.

Gilman TL(1)(2), George CM(1), Andrade MA(1), Mitchell NC(1), Toney GM(1)(3), 
Daws LC(1)(2)(3)(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Cellular & Integrative Physiology, University of Texas Health 
Science Center at San Antonio, San Antonio, TX, United States.
(2)Addiction Research, Treatment & Training Center of Excellence, University of 
Texas Health Science Center at San Antonio, San Antonio, TX, United States.
(3)Center for Biomedical Neuroscience, University of Texas Health Science Center 
at San Antonio, San Antonio, TX, United States.
(4)Department of Pharmacology, University of Texas Health Science Center at San 
Antonio, San Antonio, TX, United States.

Stress-related neuropsychiatric (e.g., anxiety, depression) and cardiovascular 
diseases are frequently comorbid, though discerning the directionality of their 
association has been challenging. One of the most controllable risk factors for 
cardiovascular disease is salt intake. Though high salt intake is implicated in 
neuropsychiatric diseases, its direct neurobehavioral effects have seldom been 
explored. We reported that elevated salt intake in mice augments 
neuroinflammation, particularly after an acute stressor. Here, we explored how 
high salt consumption affected behavioral responses of mice to mildly arousing 
environmental and social tests, then assessed levels of the stress-related 
hormone corticosterone. Unexpectedly, anxiety-related behaviors in the elevated 
plus maze, open field, and marble burying test were unaffected by increased salt 
intake. However, nest building was diminished in mice consuming high salt, and 
voluntary social interaction was elevated, suggesting reduced engagement in 
ethologically-relevant behaviors that promote survival by attenuating threat 
exposure. Moreover, we observed significant positive correlations between social 
preference and subsequent corticosterone only in mice consuming increased salt, 
as well as negative correlations between open arm exploration in the elevated 
plus maze and corticosterone selectively in mice in the highest salt condition. 
Thus, heightened salt consumption reduces behavioral inhibition under relatively 
low-threat conditions, and enhances circulating corticosterone proportional to 
specific behavioral shifts. Considering the adverse health consequences of high 
salt intake, combined with evidence that increased salt consumption impairs 
inhibition of context-inappropriate behaviors, we suggest that prolonged high 
salt intake likely promulgates maladaptive behavioral and cardiovascular 
responses to perceived stressors that may explain some of the prevalent 
comorbidity between cardiovascular and neuropsychiatric diseases.

Copyright © 2019 Gilman, George, Andrade, Mitchell, Toney and Daws.

DOI: 10.3389/fnbeh.2019.00271
PMCID: PMC6923701
PMID: 31920580


296. Asian J Psychiatr. 2020 Feb;48:101894. doi: 10.1016/j.ajp.2019.101894. Epub
2019  Dec 19.

Physical exercise prevents mice from L-Kynurenine-induced depression-like 
behavior.

Su CH(1), Chuang HC(2), Hong CJ(3).

Author information:
(1)Institute of Brain Science, School of Medicine, National Yang-Ming 
University, Taipei City, Taiwan.
(2)Institute of Anatomy & Cell Biology, School of Medicine, National Yang-Ming 
University, Taipei City, Taiwan.
(3)Department of Psychiatry, Taipei Veterans General Hospital, Taipei City, 
Taiwan; Institute of Brain Science, School of Medicine, National Yang-Ming 
University, Taipei City, Taiwan. Electronic address: cjhong@vghtpe.gov.tw.

BACKGROUND: Depression is a wide-spread disease that affects millions of people 
worldwide. Recent studies in neuroinflammation suggested that increased plasma 
kynurenine (KYN) level was related to depressive symptoms, while animal studies 
indicated that KYN increase could be caused by environmental stressor. Recent 
study reported that exercise may prevent stress-induced depression by enhancing 
KYN metabolism in muscle. This study seeks to test the effect of voluntary 
exercise on depressive-like behavior induced by stress and KYN in mice.
HYPOTHESIS: Exercise prevents depressive-like behavior induced by KYN.
RESULTS: Our study found that two weeks of voluntary exercise greatly reduced 
stress-induced helplessness in mice. On non-stressed mice, naïve mice injected 
with KYN showed increased immobile time in the TST (214 ± 30 s for KYN vs. 181 ± 
33 s for saline; p < 0.05) and higher failure rate in the escape test (39 ± 31 % 
for KYN vs. 16 ± 13 % for saline; p < 0.05), while exercised mice were not 
affected by KYN injection in neither test. We also observed that exercised 
mice's plasma KYN concentration (3.29 ± 1.09 u M) was as low as a quarter of 
that of control (12.95 ± 3.44 u M) (P < 0.01) after KYN injection. Finally, we 
found that exercised mice expressed more kynurenine aminotransferase III (KAT3) 
in the muscle than control mice (1.62 ± 0.60 folds for exercise vs. 1.00 ± 0.22 
folds for control; p = 0.005) CONCLUSION: Exercise promotes KAT3 expression, 
enhances KYN metabolism, and consequently prevents mice from stress or 
KYN-induced depressive-like behavior.

Copyright © 2019 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ajp.2019.101894
PMID: 31918308 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of Competing Interest All authors 
declare that they have no conflicts of interest.


297. Neuroscience. 2021 Feb 1;454:72-84. doi: 10.1016/j.neuroscience.2019.12.034.
 Epub 2020 Jan 7.

Testing the Limits of Sex Differences Using Variable Stress.

Johnson A(1), Rainville JR(1), Rivero-Ballon GN(1), Dhimitri K(1), Hodes GE(2).

Author information:
(1)School of Neuroscience, Virginia Polytechnic Institute and State University, 
Blacksburg, VA, USA.
(2)School of Neuroscience, Virginia Polytechnic Institute and State University, 
Blacksburg, VA, USA. Electronic address: ghodes@vt.edu.

Depression is a chronic disease that affects nearly twice as many women as men, 
and symptoms can differ by sex. Preclinical models disproportionately use male 
subjects and test a single behavioral endpoint immediately at the cessation of 
stress. We conducted variable stress in male and female mice for 6, 28, and 
56 days, and measured behavior with a battery chosen to match research domain 
criteria. To examine individual differences, we generated a composite z score to 
measure stress susceptibility across behavioral tests. We also tested behavior 
following a 30-day recovery period to evaluate the duration of the stress 
effects. Females, but not males, were susceptible to 6 days of variable stress 
when behavioral testing started 24 h later. If behavioral testing was conducted 
30 days later both males and females expressed stress related behaviors. Males 
and females were stress susceptible to 28 days of variable stress and effects 
were long lasting. Both sexes habituated to 56 days of variable stress, but 
anxiety associated measures still showed persistence. Performance on specific 
behavioral tests was often different between individuals and between sexes, and 
not all stressed animals were susceptible to all tested behaviors. These studies 
confirm that behavioral sex differences are detected in response to variable 
stress, and reveal information about individual differences. Use of a test 
battery that measures varying endophenotypes can be combined into a single 
stress susceptibility score as a tool similar to the scales/inventories used for 
the study of depression in humans. We present these data with the goal of 
furthering the field's understanding sex differences and how they shape the 
biology of mood disorders.

Copyright © 2020 IBRO. Published by Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.neuroscience.2019.12.034
PMID: 31917340 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


298. Psychopharmacology (Berl). 2020 Mar;237(3):887-899. doi: 
10.1007/s00213-019-05422-w. Epub 2020 Jan 3.

Purpurin exerted antidepressant-like effects on behavior and stress axis 
reactivity: evidence of serotonergic engagement.

Ma L(1), Hu P(2), Zhang J(3), Cui W(4), Zhao X(5).

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology, Jingzhou Central Hospital, The Second Clinical 
Medical College, Yangtze University, Jingzhou, Hubei Province, China.
(2)Department of Vasculocardiology, Jingzhou Central Hospital, The Second 
Clinical Medical College, Yangtze University, Jingzhou, Hubei Province, China.
(3)Department of Pharmacology, Ningbo University, School of Medical Science, 
Ningbo, China.
(4)Department of Pharmacology, Ningbo University, School of Medical Science, 
Ningbo, China. cuiwugeng@nbu.edu.cn.
(5)Department of Pharmacology, Ningbo University, School of Medical Science, 
Ningbo, China. zhaoxin@nbu.edu.cn.

RATIONALE AND OBJECTIVES: Major depression represents a significant public 
health problem worldwide, and effective regimen is lacking. The present study 
investigated the antidepressant-like effects of purpurin, a natural 
anthraquinone compound from Rubia tinctorum L., and explored the underlying 
mechanism(s).
METHODS: Forced swim test (FST) and tail suspension test (TST) were used to 
assess antidepressant-like effects of purpurin in mice. Effects of purpurin on 
neuroendocrine responsivity were evaluated at the level of corticosterone and 
ACTH following acute restraint stress and intracerebroventricular injection of 
corticotrophin-releasing-factor (CRF). Serotonergic mechanisms underlying 
purpurin antidepressant effect were explored using biochemical, neurochemical, 
and pharmacological paradigms.
RESULTS: Chronic purpurin treatment exerted in mice dose-dependently 
antidepressant-like effects on behavior and stress axis reactivity (n = 9-11 per 
group). The purpurin-triggered antidepressant-like effects are serotonergically 
dependent, since purpurin-treated mice showed escalated levels of brain 
serotonin and suppressed monoamine oxidase (MAO) activity (n = 8-11 per group). 
Consistently, chemical depletion of brain serotonin by p-chlorophenylalanine 
(PCPA) abolished the antidepressant-like effects of purpurin on behavior and 
stress axis responsivity (n = 9-10 per group). Moreover, the antidepressant 
effect by purpurin was preferentially counteracted by 1A-selective 5-HT receptor 
antagonist WAY-100635, but potentiated by 1A-selective agonist 8-OH-DPAT and 
sub-effective dose of serotonergic antidepressant fluoxetine (n = 9-11 per 
group), suggesting a crucial role for 5-HT1A related serotonergic system in 
mediating such purpurin antidepressant effect.
CONCLUSION: We have revealed the antidepressant-like effects of purpurin on both 
behavior and stress axis reactivity in mice, with serotonergic system that 
preferentially couples with 5-HT1A receptors being critically engaged.

DOI: 10.1007/s00213-019-05422-w
PMID: 31900524 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


299. Behav Pharmacol. 2020 Jun;31(4):322-332. doi: 10.1097/FBP.0000000000000535.

Evaluation of the antidepressive property of β-hydroxybutyrate in mice.

Pan S(1), Hu P(2), You Q(3), Chen J(4), Wu J(5), Zhang Y(2), Cai Z(2), Ye T(2), 
Xu X(2), Chen Z(6), Tong L(2), Huang C(2), He H(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology, Danyang People's Hospital of Nantong University, 
Danyang.
(2)Department of Pharmacology, School of Pharmacy, Nantong University.
(3)Department of Cardiothoracic Surgery, Affiliated Hospital of Nantong 
University.
(4)Department of Respiratory Medicine, Nantong First People's Hospital, the 
Second Affiliated Hospital of Nantong University, Nantong.
(5)Department of Cardiology, Suzhou Kowloon Hospital of Shanghai Jiaotong 
University School of Medicine, Suzhou.
(6)Invasive Technology Department, Nantong First People's Hospital, the Second 
Affiliated Hospital of Nantong University, Nantong, Jiangsu, China.

β-hydroxybutyrate, a ketone body metabolite, has been shown to suppress 
depression-like behavior in rodents. In this study, we examined its 
antidepressive property in acute and chronic administration modes in mice by 
using forced swim test and tail suspension test. Results showed that the 
decrease effect of β-hydroxybutyrate (300 mg/kg) on immobility time in the tail 
suspension test and forced swim test in stress-naive mice began to be 
significant at day 11. In a dose-dependent experiment, β-hydroxybutyrate 
treatment (11 days) showed significant antidepressant activities at the dose of 
200 and 300 mg/kg. Unlike fluoxetine, β-hydroxybutyrate treatment (300 mg/kg) 
showed no antidepressant activities in the acute (1 hour before the test) and 
three times administration mode within 24 hours (1, 5, and 24 hours before the 
test). But in a co-administration mode, β-hydroxybutyrate (100 mg/kg) 
-fluoxetine (2.5 mg/kg) co-administration exhibited an obvious antidepressant 
activity in the tail suspension test and forced swim test. Further analysis 
showed that the antidepressant effects of β-hydroxybutyrate and fluoxetine were 
not associated with the change in mouse locomotor activity. Furthermore, both 
chronic β-hydroxybutyrate treatment and β-hydroxybutyrate-fluoxetine 
co-treatment suppressed chronic unpredictable stress-induced increase in 
immobility time in the tail suspension test and forced swim test as well as 
chronic unpredictable stress-induced decrease in mouse body weight. Taken 
together, these results indicate that β-hydroxybutyrate (1) needs a relatively 
long time to show comparable behavioral activity to that of fluoxetine in assays 
that are sensitive to the behavioral effects of established antidepressant 
compounds and (2) can augment the antidepressant action of a sub-therapeutic 
dose of fluoxetine.

DOI: 10.1097/FBP.0000000000000535
PMID: 31895061 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


300. Neuropsychopharmacol Rep. 2020 Mar;40(1):73-84. doi: 10.1002/npr2.12093.
Epub  2019 Dec 23.

Differential effects of stress exposure via two types of restraint apparatuses 
on behavior and plasma corticosterone level in inbred male BALB/cAJcl mice.

Shoji H(1), Miyakawa T(1).

Author information:
(1)Division of Systems Medical Science, Institute for Comprehensive Medical 
Science, Fujita Health University, Toyoake, Japan.

AIMS: Restraint stress is one of the most widely used experimental methods for 
generating rodent models of stress-induced neuropsychiatric disorders, such as 
depression and anxiety. Although various types of restraint apparatuses have 
been used to expose animals to stress, the magnitudes of the effects of stress 
exposure via different types of restraint apparatuses on physiology and behavior 
have not been compared in the same environment. Here, we investigated the 
effects of stress exposure via two types of restraint apparatuses on body 
weight, locomotor activity, anxiety- and depression-related behaviors, and 
plasma corticosterone levels in mice.
METHODS: Adult male BALB/cAJcl mice were restrained by placing them in either a 
well-ventilated plastic conical tube or a tapered plastic film envelope for 
6 hours per day for 10 or 21 consecutive days. Mice were weighed during and 
after the stress period and were subjected to a battery of behavioral tests, 
including light/dark transition, open field, elevated plus maze, Porsolt forced 
swim, tail suspension, and sucrose preference tests, starting on the day after 
the last stress session. Plasma corticosterone levels were measured in another 
cohort of mice on the 1st and the 21st stress sessions and after the Porsolt 
forced swim test.
RESULTS: Exposure to repeated stress via the two above mentioned types of 
restraint apparatuses caused body weight loss, heightened locomotor activity, 
altered immobility during forced swim, and increased plasma corticosterone 
levels, and some of these results differed between the restraint stress 
protocols. Film-restraint-stressed mice had significantly lower body weights 
than tube-restraint-stressed mice. Film-restraint-stressed mice exhibited 
significantly higher or lower immobility during forced swim than 
tube-restraint-stressed mice, depending on the test time. Additionally, the 
stress-induced increase in plasma corticosterone levels was found to be higher 
in film-restraint-stressed mice than in tube-restraint-stressed mice.
CONCLUSION: Our results indicate that film-restraint stress has more pronounced 
effects on body weight, depression-related behavior, and corticosterone response 
than tube-restraint stress in mice. These findings may help guide which 
restraint stress procedures to use, depending on the objectives of a given 
study, in generating animal models of stress-induced neuropsychiatric disorders.

© 2019 The Authors. Neuropsychopharmacology Reports published by John Wiley & 
Sons Australia, Ltd on behalf of the Japanese Society of 
NeuropsychoPharmacology.

DOI: 10.1002/npr2.12093
PMCID: PMC7292218
PMID: 31872573 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interests.301. Mol Brain. 2019 Nov 27;12(1):99. doi: 10.1186/s13041-019-0521-9.

Identification of stress resilience module by weighted gene co-expression 
network analysis in Fkbp5-deficient mice.

Kwon J(1), Kim YJ(1), Choi K(1), Seol S(1), Kang HJ(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Life Science, Chung-Ang University, 84 Heukseok-ro, Dongjak-gu, 
Seoul, 06974, South Korea.
(2)Department of Life Science, Chung-Ang University, 84 Heukseok-ro, Dongjak-gu, 
Seoul, 06974, South Korea. hyokang@cau.ac.kr.

FKBP5 encodes the FK506 binding protein 5, a glucocorticoid receptor (GR) 
binding protein known to play an important role in the physiological stress 
response. However, results from previous studies examining the association 
between common variants of FKBP5 and stress have been inconsistent. To 
investigate whether the loss of FKBP5 affects the stress response, we examined 
the behavior of mice following the induction of chronic restraint stress between 
homozygous wild-type and Fkbp5 knock-out mice. After 21 days of exposure to 
restraint stress, WT mice showed anhedonia, a core symptom of depression, which 
could be measured by a sucrose preference test. However, Fkbp5-deficient mice 
did not exhibit significant depressive-like behavior compared to the WT after 
exposure to chronic restraint stress. To investigate the molecular mechanism 
underlying stress resilience, we performed RNA sequencing analysis. The 
differentially expressed gene (DEG) analysis showed that chronic stress induced 
changes in various biological processes involved in cell-cell adhesion and 
inflammatory response. Weighted gene co-expression network analysis identified 
60 characteristic modules that correlated with stress or the FKBP5 genotype. 
Among them, M55 showed a gene expression pattern consistent with behavioral 
changes after stress exposure, and the gene ontology analysis revealed that this 
was involved in nervous system development, gland morphogenesis, and 
inflammatory response. These results suggest that FKBP5 may be a crucial factor 
for the stress response, and that transcriptomic data can provide insight into 
stress-related pathophysiology.

DOI: 10.1186/s13041-019-0521-9
PMCID: PMC6882145
PMID: 31775900 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that they have no competing 
interests.


302. Front Cell Neurosci. 2019 Oct 25;13:465. doi: 10.3389/fncel.2019.00465. 
eCollection 2019.

Gpr158 Deficiency Impacts Hippocampal CA1 Neuronal Excitability, Dendritic 
Architecture, and Affects Spatial Learning.

Çetereisi D(1), Kramvis I(1), Gebuis T(1), van der Loo RJ(1), Gouwenberg Y(1), 
Mansvelder HD(2), Li KW(1), Smit AB(1), Spijker S(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Molecular and Cellular Neurobiology, Center for Neurogenomics 
and Cognitive Research, Amsterdam Neuroscience, Vrije Universiteit, Amsterdam, 
Netherlands.
(2)Department of Integrative Neurophysiology, Center for Neurogenomics and 
Cognitive Research, Amsterdam Neuroscience, Vrije Universiteit, Amsterdam, 
Netherlands.

G-protein-coupled receptor 158 (Gpr158) is highly expressed in striatum, 
hippocampus and prefrontal cortex. It gained attention as it was implicated in 
physiological responses to stress and depression. Recently, Gpr158 has been 
shown to act as a pathway-specific synaptic organizer in the hippocampus, 
required for proper mossy fiber-CA3 neurocircuitry establishment, structure, and 
function. Although rodent Gpr158 expression is highest in CA3, considerable 
expression occurs in CA1 especially after the first postnatal month. Here, we 
combined hippocampal-dependent behavioral paradigms with subsequent 
electrophysiological and morphological analyses from the same group of mice to 
assess the effects of Gpr158 deficiency on CA1 physiology and function. We 
demonstrate deficits in spatial memory acquisition and retrieval in the Morris 
water maze paradigm, along with deficits in the acquisition of extinction memory 
in the passive avoidance test in Gpr158 KO mice. Electrophysiological recordings 
from CA1 pyramidal neurons revealed normal basal excitatory and inhibitory 
synaptic transmission, however, Schaffer collateral stimulation yielded 
dramatically reduced post-synaptic currents. Interestingly, intrinsic 
excitability of CA1 pyramidals was found increased, potentially acting as a 
compensatory mechanism to the reductions in Schaffer collateral-mediated drive. 
Both ex vivo and in vitro, neurons deficient for or with lowered levels of 
Gpr158 exhibited robust reductions in dendritic architecture and complexity, 
i.e., reduced length, surface, bifurcations, and branching. This effect was 
localized in the apical but not basal dendrites of adult CA1 pyramidals, 
indicative of compartment-specific alterations. A significant positive 
correlation between spatial memory acquisition and extent of complexity of CA1 
pyramidals was found. Taken together, we provide first evidence of significant 
disruptions in hippocampal CA1 neuronal dendritic architecture and physiology, 
driven by Gpr158 deficiency. Importantly, the hippocampal neuronal morphology 
deficits appear to support the impairments in spatial memory acquisition 
observed in Gpr158 KO mice.

Copyright © 2019 Çetereisi, Kramvis, Gebuis, van der Loo, Gouwenberg, 
Mansvelder, Li, Smit and Spijker.

DOI: 10.3389/fncel.2019.00465
PMCID: PMC6843000
PMID: 31749686


303. Food Funct. 2019 Dec 11;10(12):8161-8171. doi: 10.1039/c9fo01178a.

One water-soluble polysaccharide from Ginkgo biloba leaves with antidepressant 
activities via modulation of the gut microbiome.

Chen P (1), Hei M , Kong L , Liu Y , Yang Y , Mu H , Zhang X , Zhao S , Duan J .

Author information:
(1)Shaanxi Key Laboratory of Natural Products & Chemical Biology, College of 
Chemistry & Pharmacy, Northwest A&F University, Yangling 712100, Shaanxi, China. 
jduan@nwsuaf.edu.cn.

Depression, a mental illness characterized by persistent feeling of sadness and 
loss of interest, has been a serious health problem worldwide. Manipulation of 
the microbiota by probiotics and prebiotics represents a novel emerging strategy 
for the treatment of various psychiatric disorders such as major depressive 
disorders. Here, we show that one water-soluble polysaccharide from Ginkgo 
biloba leaves (GPS) reduced stress-induced depression and reversed gut 
dysbiosis. Similar to the antidepressant paroxetine, GPS significantly reduced 
the immobility times in the tail suspension test (TST) and forced swimming test 
(FST) and anxiety-like behavior in the open field test (OFT). Consistent with 
the improvement of depression-like behavior above, GPS mice had elevated 
serotonin and dopamine levels in multiple brain regions including the 
hippocampus, cerebral cortex and olfactory bulb, relative to unpredictable 
chronic mild stress (UCMS) treatment mice. GPS treatment could alleviate the 
stress-induced reduction in the density of serotonin-positive and 
dopamine-positive cells. Fecal microbiome transplant (FMT) combined with 
antibiotic treatment showed that the anti-depressant activity of GPS had a 
causal relationship with intestinal microbes. By performing a 
pyrosequencing-based analysis of bacterial 16S rRNA (V3 + V4 region) in fecal of 
the mice, the results showed that GPS reversed depression-associated gut 
dysbiosis and increased the richness of Lactobacillus species which has been 
proven to be a path to relieve depression. Our results demonstrated that the 
polysaccharide from Ginkgo biloba leaves might be a promising 
pharmacotherapeutic candidate for treating depression.

DOI: 10.1039/c9fo01178a
PMID: 31742291 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


304. Behav Brain Res. 2020 Feb 3;379:112361. doi: 10.1016/j.bbr.2019.112361. Epub
 2019 Nov 14.

Link between personality and response to THC exposure.

Kardash T(1), Rodin D(2), Kirby M(1), Davis N(3), Koman I(2), Gorelick J(4), 
Michaelevski I(1), Pinhasov A(5).

Author information:
(1)Department of Molecular Biology, Ariel University, Ariel, Israel.
(2)Department of Molecular Biology, Ariel University, Ariel, Israel; Institute 
for Personalized Medicine and Translational Research, Ariel University, Ariel, 
Israel.
(3)Institute for Personalized Medicine and Translational Research, Ariel 
University, Ariel, Israel.
(4)Eastern R&D Center, Kiryat Arba, Israel.
(5)Department of Molecular Biology, Ariel University, Ariel, Israel. Electronic 
address: albertpi@ariel.ac.il.

The effects of cannabis reported by users range from experiences of euphoria and 
anxiolytic effects to paranoia, anxiety, and increased risk of depression. 
Attempts to reconcile the apparent contradictions in user response have not been 
conclusive. Here, we utilized selectively-bred stress-resilient socially 
dominant (Dom) and stress-sensitive socially submissive (Sub) mice to elucidate 
this contradiction. Following short-term, repeated treatment with 
delta-9-tetrahydrocannabinol (THC) at two different doses (1.5 mg/kg and 15 
mg/kg), Sub mice presented significant place-aversion in a Conditioned Place 
Preference paradigm at a high dose, whereas Dom mice displayed no place 
preference or aversion. Forced Swim test conducted after 6-week of washout 
period, revealed differential impact of the two THC doses depending upon 
behavioral pattern. Specifically, the low dose alleviated depressive-like 
behavior in Sub mice, while the high dose produced the opposite effect in Dom 
mice. Interestingly, corticosterone concentration in serum was elevated at the 
high dose regardless of the mice-population tested. We conclude here that 
differences in dominance behavior and stress vulnerability are involved in the 
regulation of cannabis response among users and should be considered when 
prescribing THC-containing medications to patients.

Copyright © 2019 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.bbr.2019.112361
PMID: 31734264 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


305. Exp Neurol. 2020 Jan;323:113084. doi: 10.1016/j.expneurol.2019.113084. Epub
2019  Nov 5.

Long-lasting neurobehavioral alterations in burn-injured mice resembling 
post-traumatic stress disorder in humans.

Zhang QH(1), Hao JW(2), Li GL(2), Ji XJ(3), Zhou M(4), Yao YM(2).

Author information:
(1)Trauma Research Center, Fourth Medical Center of Chinese PLA General 
Hospital, Beijing 100048, PR China. Electronic address: z_qinghong@aliyun.com.
(2)Trauma Research Center, Fourth Medical Center of Chinese PLA General 
Hospital, Beijing 100048, PR China.
(3)Trauma Research Center, Fourth Medical Center of Chinese PLA General 
Hospital, Beijing 100048, PR China; Department of Emergency, First Hospital 
Affiliated to Wenzhou Medical College, Wenzhou, Zhejiang 325000, PR China.
(4)Neurocritical Care Unit, The First Affiliated Hospital of USTC, Division of 
Life Sciences and Medicine, University of Science and Technology of China, 
Hefei, Anhui 230001, PR China.

OBJECTIVE: To establish an animal model for posttraumatic stress disorder in 
burn-injured patients.
METHODS: Thermal-injured mice with 15% total body surface area were subjected to 
a series of neurobehavioral tests at 1 and 3 months postburn. Brains were 
collected for analysis of key molecules expression, spleens for T cell function 
analysis, and blood for biochemistry and hormones detection.
RESULTS: Comparison with sham mice, burn mice showed extremely high locomotion 
in homecage, open field, and forced swimming tests, indicating a hyper-arousal 
state. Burn mice exhibited improved spatial memory in Morris Water Maze test and 
heightened context fear memory in context fear conditioning, suggesting 
re-experiencing behavior. Although burn mice showed pronounced passive avoidance 
in the step-through test, their active avoidance capability in response to the 
conditional stimulus in the shuttle box test was relatively deteriorated. 
Likewise, the retention of cue-feared memory was impaired in fear conditioning 
test. The above negative alterations in mood were recapitulated in open-field 
test, in which the burn mice displayed an anxiety-like behavior with less time 
spent in the center. However, no sign of depression was found in the forced 
swimming and sucrose preference tests. The negative mood of burn mice was 
reinforced by a deficit in sociality and preference for social novelty in social 
interaction test. These neurobehavioral alterations were associated with an 
increased expression of brain-derived neurotrophic factor along with a 
remarkable microgliosis and a moderate astrocytosis in the brain of burn vs. 
sham mice. Moreover, a prominent Th2 switch and consequent increased nuclear 
NF-κB translocation were seen in the splenic T cells from burn relative to sham 
mice.
CONCLUSIONS: We conclude that even mild burn injury could lead to long-lasting 
cognitive and effective alterations in mice. These findings shed light on the 
interactions among neuropsychology, neurobiology, and immunology throughout the 
recovery period of burn injury.

Copyright © 2019 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.expneurol.2019.113084
PMID: 31697945 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


306. J Psychiatr Res. 2020 Jan;120:91-102. doi: 10.1016/j.jpsychires.2019.10.003.
 Epub 2019 Oct 7.

Depression-like behavior, hyperglycemia, oxidative stress, and neuroinflammation 
presented in diabetic mice are reversed by the administration of 
1-methyl-3-(phenylselanyl)-1H-indole.

Bampi SR(1), Casaril AM(1), Domingues M(1), de Andrade Lourenço D(1), Pesarico 
AP(1), Vieira B(2), Begnini KR(3), Seixas FK(3), Collares TV(3), Lenardão EJ(2), 
Savegnago L(4).

Author information:
(1)Neurobiotechnology Research Group, Center of Biotechnology, Federal 
University of Pelotas, RS, Brazil.
(2)Laboratory of Clean Organic Synthesis, Center of Chemical, Pharmaceutical and 
Food Sciences, Federal University of Pelotas, RS, Brazil.
(3)Cellular and Molecular Oncology Research Group, Center of Biotechnology, 
Federal University of Pelotas, RS, Brazil.
(4)Neurobiotechnology Research Group, Center of Biotechnology, Federal 
University of Pelotas, RS, Brazil. Electronic address: 
luciellisavegnago@yahoo.com.br.

Oxidative stress and neuroinflammation are found both in diabetes mellitus and 
major depressive disorder (MDD). In addition to damage in peripheral organs, 
such as liver and kidney, diabetic patients have a higher risk of developing 
depression. In this sense, the objective of the present study was to 
characterize the antidepressant-like effect of a selenium-containing compound, 
the 1-methyl-3-(phenylselanyl)-1H-indole (MFSeI), in streptozotocin 
(STZ)-induced diabetic mice. STZ (200 mg/kg, i.p.) was used to induce diabetes 
mellitus type I, and after seven days, the administration of MFSeI (10 mg/kg, 
i.g.) was initiated and followed for the next 14 days. Twenty-four hours after 
the last administration of MFSeI, the behavioral tests were performed, followed 
by euthanasia. The treatment with MFSeI was able to reverse the hyperglycemia 
induced by STZ. MFSeI also decreased the plasma levels of biomarkers of liver 
and kidney damage. Importantly, MFSeI reversed the depression-like behavior 
induced by STZ in the tail suspension test and forced swimming test without 
promoting locomotor alterations. Furthermore, MFSeI reversed the increased 
levels of reactive species and lipid peroxidation in the prefrontal cortex 
(PFC), hippocampus (HC), liver, and kidney of STZ-treated mice. Treatment with 
MFSeI also decreased the expression of tumor necrosis factor-alpha, inducible 
nitric oxide synthase and indoleamine 2,3-dioxygenase, while increasing the 
expression of interleukin-10, insulin receptor substrate-1 and glucose 
transport-4 in the PFC and HC of mice. Taken together, the results indicate the 
effectiveness of MFSeI against depression-like behavior and central and 
peripheral complications caused by diabetes in mice.

Copyright © 2019 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jpsychires.2019.10.003
PMID: 31654972 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


307. Pharmacology. 2020;105(5-6):289-299. doi: 10.1159/000503728. Epub 2019 Oct
18.

Trigonelline through the Attenuation of Oxidative Stress Exerts Antidepressant- 
and Anxiolytic-Like Effects in a Mouse Model of Maternal Separation Stress.

Lorigooini Z(1), Sadeghi Dehsahraei K(1), Bijad E(1), Habibian Dehkordi S(2), 
Amini-Khoei H(3).

Author information:
(1)Medical Plants Research Center, Basic Health Sciences Institute, Shahrekord 
University of Medical Sciences, Shahrekord, Iran.
(2)Department of Basic Sciences, Veterinary Faculty, Shahrekord University, 
Shahrekord, Iran.
(3)Medical Plants Research Center, Basic Health Sciences Institute, Shahrekord 
University of Medical Sciences, Shahrekord, Iran, aminikhoyi@gmail.com.

Depression and anxiety are common psychiatric disorders accounting for social 
and economic burdens. Previous studies have shown that oxidative stress and 
oxidant/antioxidant imbalance are involved in the pathophysiology of psychiatric 
disorders. Experiencing early-life adversities (like maternal separation [MS] 
stress) provoked psychiatric disorders. Trigonelline (TRG) is a pyridine 
alkaloid that has various pharmacological effects including hypoglycemic, 
neuroprotective and memory-improving properties. To investigate the 
antidepressant- and anxiolytic-like effects of TRG focusing oxidative stress, we 
applied the MS paradigm to male mice at postnatal day (PND) 2-14 (3 h daily, 
9-12 a.m.) and investigated the behaviors at PND 45-47. Using valid behavioral 
tests including a forced swimming test (FST), splash test, open field test (OFT) 
and elevated plus maze (EPM), we investigated behavioral modifications. 
Additionally, we examined the effects of MS and TRG treatment on the level of 
malondialdehyde (MDA), nitric oxide (NO) and also antioxidant capacity in the 
brain and serum. Our results showed that MS provoked depressive- and 
anxiety-like behaviors in the FST, OFT, EPM and splash test, which are 
associated with an increase in MDA and NO levels as well as a decrease in 
antioxidant capacity in the brain and serum samples. Findings determined that 
TRG significantly reversed the negative effects of MS on behavior that is 
accompanied by a decrease in MDA and NO as well as an increase in antioxidant 
capacity. Findings of the present study showed that beneficial effects of TRG 
may be, at least partially, mediated via the reduction of oxidative stress and 
an increase of antioxidant capacity.

© 2019 S. Karger AG, Basel.

DOI: 10.1159/000503728
PMID: 31630147 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


308. Biomed Pharmacother. 2019 Dec;120:109489. doi: 10.1016/j.biopha.2019.109489.
 Epub 2019 Oct 17.

CTRP3 acts as a novel regulator in depressive-like behavior associated 
inflammation and apoptosis by meditating p38 and JNK MAPK signaling.

Meng J(1), Wang DM(2), Luo LL(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Geriatrics, Wuhan Mental Health Center, Wuhan, 430022, China.
(2)Department of Geriatric Psychiatry, Qingdao Mental Heath Center, Qingdao, 
266034, China.
(3)Department of Psychosomatic, The Fourth People's Hospital of Shaanxi, Xi'an, 
710043, China. Electronic address: da.waini619@qq.com.

Depression is a complicated etiological pattern, and its pathology and effective 
treatments are highly limited.C1q-tumor necrosis factor-related protein-3 
(CTRP3) is an adipokine, playing crucial roles in metabolic regulatory 
properties. However, the effects of CTRP3 on depression are largely unknown. In 
the present study, we found that CTRP3 expression levels were markedly reduced 
in hippocampus of mice with depression induced by chronic unpredictable mild 
stress (CUMS). In mouse model with depression, CTRP3-deficient mice aggravated 
depression-associated behaviors, as evidenced by the reduced locomotor activity 
and sucrose consumption, while the elevated immobility time in the tail 
suspension test (TST) and forced swimming test (FST). Moreover, CUMS-induced 
neuron death and increased expression of cleaved Caspase-3 were significantly 
accelerated by CTRP3 knockout. Furthermore, CTRP3 deletion intensified 
pro-inflammatory response in CUMS-exposed mice, which was associated with the 
activation of nuclear factor-κB(NF-κB) signaling. The activity of 
mitogen-activated protein kinases (MAPKs), including p38 and JNK, was further 
promoted in hippocampus of CTRP3-knockout mice with CUMS exposure. In 
contrast,CTRP3 over-expression showed anti-apoptotic and anti-inflammatory 
effects in lipopolysaccharide (LPS)-treated microglial cells. Importantly, the 
in vitro experiments demonstrated that CTRP3 knockdown-exacerbated apoptosis and 
inflammatory responsewere remarkably abrogated by the blockage of p38 and JNK 
signaling pathways in microglia stimulated by LPS. Next, in CUMS-exposed mice 
with CTRP3 deficiency, suppressing p38 and JNK markedly alleviated 
depressive-like behavior,hippocampal neuron death, apoptosis and inflammation. 
Therefore, CTRP3 may be an innovative therapeutic target for treating patients 
with depression through regulating p38 and JNK signaling.

Copyright © 2019. Published by Elsevier Masson SAS.

DOI: 10.1016/j.biopha.2019.109489
PMID: 31629950 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


309. Exp Gerontol. 2019 Dec;128:110743. doi: 10.1016/j.exger.2019.110743. Epub
2019  Oct 17.

The neuroprotective effect of schisandrol A on 6-OHDA-induced PD mice may be 
related to PI3K/AKT and IKK/IκBα/NF-κB pathway.

Yan T(1), Sun Y(2), Gong G(3), Li Y(2), Fan K(2), Wu B(1), Bi K(4), Jia Y(5).

Author information:
(1)School of Functional Food and Wine, Shenyang Pharmaceutical University, 
Wenhua Road 103, Shenyang 110016, China.
(2)School of Traditional Chinese Materia Medica, Shenyang Pharmaceutical 
University, Wenhua Road 103, Shenyang 110016, China.
(3)Department of Bioengineering, Zunyi Medical University, Zhuhai Campus, 
Zhuhai, Guangdong 519041, China.
(4)School of Pharmacy, Shenyang Pharmaceutical University, Wenhua Road 103, 
Shenyang 110016, China.
(5)School of Traditional Chinese Materia Medica, Shenyang Pharmaceutical 
University, Wenhua Road 103, Shenyang 110016, China. Electronic address: 
jiayingsyphu@126.com.

Parkinson's disease is the second most common neurodegenerative disease. Its 
main pathological feature is the substantial nigra-striatum dopaminergic 
neuronal dysfunction, which causes insufficient release of DA, induces motor 
symptoms, and is accompanied by nonmotor symptoms. Schisandrol A belongs to 
lignan components and has anti-inflammatory, antioxidant and neuroprotective 
effects. In this experiment, we injected 6-OHDA into medial forebrain bundle of 
C57BL/6J male mice to establish the model. The motor function of mice was 
examined by open field test and pole test, the depression-like behavior of mice 
was examined by sucrose preference test and the memory function was examined by 
Y maze. We found that schisandrol A (20 mg/kg/d) could significantly improve the 
motor symptoms, and alleviate the depression-like symptoms and memory 
dysfunction of PD mice induced by 6-OHDA. Then we studied the neuroprotective 
mechanism of schisandrol A by H.E., ELISA assay kits and Western blot. Results 
showed that schisandrol A may enhance the PI3K/AKT pathway, inhibit the 
IKK/IκBα/NF-κB pathway, reduce neuronal inflammation and oxidative stress, and 
enhance the survival of DA neurons in the brain of mice. These results indicate 
that schisandrol A is expected to be a potential drug for improving Parkinson's 
disease.

Copyright © 2019 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.exger.2019.110743
PMID: 31629801 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


310. Neurosci Res. 2020 Sep;158:56-63. doi: 10.1016/j.neures.2019.10.008. Epub
2019  Oct 16.

The effects of emotional stress are not identical to those of physical stress in 
mouse model of social defeat stress.

Nakatake Y(1), Furuie H(2), Yamada M(2), Kuniishi H(2), Ukezono M(3), Yoshizawa 
K(4), Yamada M(5).

Author information:
(1)Department of Neuropsychopharmacology, National Institute of Mental Health, 
National Center of Neurology and Psychiatry, 4-1-1 Ogawahigashimachi, Kodaira, 
Tokyo 187-8553, Japan; Laboratory of Pharmacology and Therapeutics, Faculty of 
Pharmaceutical Sciences, Tokyo University of Science, 2641, Yamazaki, Noda, 
Chiba 278-8510, Japan.
(2)Department of Neuropsychopharmacology, National Institute of Mental Health, 
National Center of Neurology and Psychiatry, 4-1-1 Ogawahigashimachi, Kodaira, 
Tokyo 187-8553, Japan.
(3)Developmental Disorder Data Multi-level Integration Unit Medical Science 
Innovation Hub Program, RIKEN, 4-1-1 Kizugawadai, Kizugawa, Kyoto 619-0225, 
Japan.
(4)Laboratory of Pharmacology and Therapeutics, Faculty of Pharmaceutical 
Sciences, Tokyo University of Science, 2641, Yamazaki, Noda, Chiba 278-8510, 
Japan.
(5)Department of Neuropsychopharmacology, National Institute of Mental Health, 
National Center of Neurology and Psychiatry, 4-1-1 Ogawahigashimachi, Kodaira, 
Tokyo 187-8553, Japan. Electronic address: mitsuhiko_yamada@ncnp.go.jp.

In this study, we investigated the effects of emotional stress and physical 
stress using the social defeat stress (SDS) model in mice. Male C57BL/6 J mice 
were attacked by male non-retired ICR mice for 10 min daily for 10 days 
(physical stress; PS), while the other cohort of mice witnessed the defeat 
(emotional stress; ES). As a result, both PS and ES mice exhibited decreased 
social behavior in the social interaction test (SIT) and increased immobility in 
the forced swim test (FST). Interestingly, only ES mice exhibited decreased 
sucrose preference, and only PS mice exhibited decreased time spent in the open 
arms in the elevated plus-maze test. ES mice did not exhibit increased levels of 
corticosterone and epinephrine after a single stress exposure, but showed a 
decrease in plasma CXCL16 levels 1 month after stress exposure. Finally, a 
RhoA/Rho kinase inhibitor, fasudil, which has been reported to attenuate the 
effects of chronic stress, suppressed the increased immobility in the FST in PS 
mice, but not in ES mice. These results demonstrate that, although ES and PS 
mice shared many characteristics, the effects of emotional stress are not 
identical to those of physical stress in mice.

Copyright © 2019 Elsevier B.V. and Japan Neuroscience Society. All rights 
reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.neures.2019.10.008
PMID: 31628971 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


311. Behav Pharmacol. 2019 Dec;30(8):712-721. doi: 10.1097/FBP.0000000000000506.

Regulator of G-protein signaling 5 protein protects against anxiety- and 
depression-like behavior.

DʼSouza MS(1), Guisinger TC, Norman H, Seeley SL, Chrissobolis S.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmaceutical and Biomedical Sciences, Raabe College of 
Pharmacy, Ohio Northern University, Ada, Ohio, USA.

Anxiety and depression are a major health burden. Angiotensin II, via activation 
of angiotensin II type 1 receptor (AT1R)-mediated brain oxidative stress and 
inflammation may contribute to these emotional abnormalities. In this study, we 
investigated the role of a regulator of G-protein signaling 5 (RGS5) protein, 
which regulates AT1R activity, in angiotensin II-induced brain oxidative stress, 
inflammation and anxiety-, and depression-like behavior. We hypothesized that 
deletion of the RGS5 protein would worsen angiotensin II-induced anxiety- and 
depression-like behavior, cerebral vascular oxidative stress, and brain 
inflammation. Adult male wild-type and RGS5-deficient mice were implanted with 
osmotic minipumps delivering either vehicle (saline) or angiotensin II (1 
mg/kg/d) for three weeks. Subsequently, mice were tested for locomotor activity, 
anxiety-like behavior (using the elevated plus maze), and depression-like 
behavior (using the tail suspension test). After behavioral testing, brain 
tissue was collected to assess oxidative stress and inflammatory proteins. RGS5 
deletion resulted in anxiety-like but not depression-like behavior when compared 
to wild-type mice. Combined deletion of RGS5 and angiotensin II treatment did 
not further worsen anxiety-like behavior observed in RGS5-deficient mice. In 
contrast, depression-like behavior was worsened in RGS5-deficient mice treated 
with angiotensin II. Interestingly, RGS5 deficiency and angiotensin II treatment 
had no effect on cerebral vascular oxidative stress, or on expression of the 
inflammatory marker vascular cell adhesion molecule-1 in the brain. RGS5 
deficiency was also associated with decreased blood pressure and an enhanced 
pressor response to angiotensin II. These data suggest that RGS5 protects 
against anxiety-like behavior and against angiotensin II-induced depression-like 
behavior.

DOI: 10.1097/FBP.0000000000000506
PMID: 31625976 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


312. Front Neurosci. 2019 Sep 20;13:986. doi: 10.3389/fnins.2019.00986.
eCollection  2019.

Deletion of CRH From GABAergic Forebrain Neurons Promotes Stress Resilience and 
Dampens Stress-Induced Changes in Neuronal Activity.

Dedic N(1)(2), Kühne C(1), Gomes KS(1)(3), Hartmann J(2)(4), Ressler KJ(2), 
Schmidt MV(4), Deussing JM(1).

Author information:
(1)Molecular Neurogenetics, Max Planck Institute of Psychiatry, Munich, Germany.
(2)Department of Psychiatry, Harvard Medical School and McLean Hospital, 
Belmont, MA, United States.
(3)Laboratory of Neuropsychopharmacology, Paulista State University, Araraquara, 
Brazil.
(4)Stress Resilience, Max Planck Institute of Psychiatry, Munich, Germany.

Dysregulation of the corticotropin-releasing hormone (CRH) system has been 
implicated in stress-related psychopathologies such as depression and anxiety. 
Although most studies have linked CRH/CRH receptor 1 signaling to aversive, 
stress-like behavior, recent work has revealed a crucial role for distinct CRH 
circuits in maintaining positive emotional valence and appetitive responses 
under baseline conditions. Here we addressed whether deletion of CRH, 
specifically from GABAergic forebrain neurons (Crh CKO-GABA mice) differentially 
affects general behavior under baseline and chronic stress conditions. 
Expression mapping in Crh CK O-GABA mice revealed absence of Crh in GABAergic 
neurons of the cortex and limbic regions including the hippocampus, central 
nucleus of the amygdala and the bed nucleus of the stria terminals, but not in 
the paraventricular nucleus of hypothalamus. Consequently, conditional CRH 
knockout animals exhibited no alterations in circadian and stress-induced 
corticosterone release compared to controls. Under baseline conditions, absence 
of Crh from forebrain GABAergic neurons resulted in social interaction deficits 
but had no effect on other behavioral measures including locomotion, anxiety, 
immobility in the forced swim test, acoustic startle response and fear 
conditioning. Interestingly, following exposure to chronic social defeat stress, 
Crh CKO-GABA mice displayed a resilient phenotype, which was accompanied by a 
dampened, stress-induced expression of immediate early genes c-fos and zif268 in 
several brain regions. Collectively our data reveals the requirement of 
GABAergic CRH circuits in maintaining appropriate social behavior in naïve 
animals and further supports the ability of CRH to promote divergent behavioral 
states under baseline and severe stress conditions.

Copyright © 2019 Dedic, Kühne, Gomes, Hartmann, Ressler, Schmidt and Deussing.

DOI: 10.3389/fnins.2019.00986
PMCID: PMC6763571
PMID: 31619956


313. Physiol Behav. 2019 Dec 1;212:112699. doi: 10.1016/j.physbeh.2019.112699.
Epub  2019 Oct 12.

Antidepressant activity of crocin-I is associated with amelioration of 
neuroinflammation and attenuates oxidative damage induced by corticosterone in 
mice.

Xiao Q(1), Xiong Z(1), Yu C(1), Zhou J(1), Shen Q(1), Wang L(2), Xie X(1), Fu 
Z(3).

Author information:
(1)College of Biotechnology and Bioengineering, Zhejiang University of 
Technology, Hangzhou 310032, China.
(2)College of Ecology, Lishui University, Lishui 323000, China.
(3)College of Biotechnology and Bioengineering, Zhejiang University of 
Technology, Hangzhou 310032, China. Electronic address: azwfu@zjut.edu.cn.

Depression is the leading cause of mental health-related disease globally, and 
it affects an estimated 300 million people worldwide. However, its physiological 
causes are not fully understood. Since available antidepressants fail to achieve 
complete disease remission, treating diversification of depression may be a 
useful contribution. Crocin, one of the main glycosylated carotenoids of 
saffron, has been found to have numerous pharmacological activities and has been 
reported to be associated with neuroprotective effects. However, the biological 
action of crocin-I, a major member of the crocin family, on depression-like 
behavior, neuroinflammation and oxidative damage in depressed animals remains 
unclear. The present study showed that crocin-I exerts significant 
antidepressant effects in a model of chronic corticosterone (CORT)-induced 
depression, as evidenced by the attenuation of depression-like behaviors in the 
open field test, forced swimming test and tail suspension test. The 
antidepressant activity of crocin-I was probably achieved through the 
suppression of neuroinflammation (IL-1β) and oxidative stress in the mouse 
hippocampus. Additionally, the oral administration of crocin-I at a dose of 
40 mg/kg reduced the CORT-induced accumulation of nicotinamide in the liver of 
the mice to improve the synthesis of NAD+, thereby stimulating the activity of 
SIRT3 deacetylase to elevate the activity of antioxidants such as superoxide 
dismutase 2 and glutathione reductase. Moreover, crocin-I reduced the levels of 
oxidative damage markers (reactive oxygen species and malonaldehyde) to rescue 
impaired mitochondrial function caused by CORT treatment, which was represented 
by electron transport chain and oxidative phosphorylation normality, and thus 
rescue ATP production to the level of that in wild-type mice. Our findings shed 
new light on the mechanism of action of crocin-I on depression-like behavior and 
oxidative stress in individuals stressed by perceived conditions.

Copyright © 2019 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.physbeh.2019.112699
PMID: 31614158 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


314. Neurochem Res. 2019 Dec;44(12):2723-2732. doi: 10.1007/s11064-019-02891-5.
Epub  2019 Oct 12.

A Selective M(1) and M(3) Receptor Antagonist, Penehyclidine Hydrochloride, 
Exerts Antidepressant-Like Effect in Mice.

Sun X(1), Sun C(2), Zhai L(3), Dong W(4).

Author information:
(1)Basic Medical College, Xuzhou Medical University, Xuzhou, 221002, Jiangsu, 
China.
(2)Department of Neurology, Qilu Hospital of Shandong University, Jinan, 250012, 
Shandong, China.
(3)Jiangsu Key Laboratory of New Drug Research and Clinical Pharmacy, Xuzhou 
Medical University, Xuzhou, 221002, Jiangsu, China.
(4)Basic Medical College, Xuzhou Medical University, Xuzhou, 221002, Jiangsu, 
China. dongwei@xzhmu.edu.cn.

Recent studies indicate that anti-muscarinic receptor is a prospective strategy 
to treat depression. Although non-selective antagonist of muscarinic receptor 
scopolamine exhibits rapid and robust antidepressant-like effect, it still has 
various side effects including abuse risk. Penehyclidine hydrochloride (PHC) is 
a novel clinical anti-cholinergic drug derived from scopolamine in China, which 
selectively blocks M1 and M3 muscarinic receptor. Therefore, the objective of 
this study was to evaluate whether PHC would manifest antidepressant-like 
effects. Forced swim test (FST), tail suspension test (TST) and chronic 
unpredictable mild stress (CUMS) model of depression were explored to assess the 
antidepressant-like effect. Western blotting was further performed to detect the 
effects of PHC on the brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) signal cascade. 
Immunofluorescence was used to observe the activation of astrocyte. Moreover, 
different pharmacological inhibitors were applied to clarify the 
antidepressant-like mechanism. The results of the present experiments revealed 
that PHC decreased the immobility time of FST and TST in mice. In the CUMS 
model, PHC rapidly ameliorated anhedonia-like behavior (within 4 days), 
accompanying with the enhanced expression of BDNF and phosphorylation of 
extracellular signal-related kinase 1/2 (ERK1/2) in the hippocampus. In 
addition, blockade of the BDNF release by verapamil and activation of its Trk B 
receptor by K252a, rather than inhibition of opioid system by naloxone or sigma 
receptor by BD1047, abolished the antidepressant-like effects of PHC in mice. 
The findings suggest that PHC, an anti-muscarinic drug in clinical use, elicits 
rapid onset antidepressant-like effect, shedding light on the development of new 
antidepressants.

DOI: 10.1007/s11064-019-02891-5
PMID: 31606838 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


315. Behav Brain Res. 2020 Jan 27;378:112238. doi: 10.1016/j.bbr.2019.112238.
Epub  2019 Sep 26.

Prophylactic (R,S)-ketamine selectively protects against inflammatory stressors.

Mastrodonato A(1), Cohensedgh O(2), LaGamma CT(3), McGowan JC(4), Hunsberger 
HC(1), Denny CA(5).

Author information:
(1)Division of Systems Neuroscience, Research Foundation for Mental Hygiene, 
Inc. (RFMH)/New York State Psychiatric Institute (NYSPI), New York, NY, 10032, 
United States; Department of Psychiatry, Columbia University Irving Medical 
Center (CUIMC), New York, NY, 10032, United States.
(2)Department of Psychiatry, Columbia University Irving Medical Center (CUIMC), 
New York, NY, 10032, United States.
(3)Division of Systems Neuroscience, Research Foundation for Mental Hygiene, 
Inc. (RFMH)/New York State Psychiatric Institute (NYSPI), New York, NY, 10032, 
United States.
(4)Doctoral Program in Neurobiology and Behavior, Columbia University, New York, 
NY, 10032, United States.
(5)Division of Systems Neuroscience, Research Foundation for Mental Hygiene, 
Inc. (RFMH)/New York State Psychiatric Institute (NYSPI), New York, NY, 10032, 
United States; Department of Psychiatry, Columbia University Irving Medical 
Center (CUIMC), New York, NY, 10032, United States. Electronic address: 
cad2125@cumc.columbia.edu.

Individuals with peripheral inflammation are a particularly vulnerable 
population for developing depression and are also more resistant towards 
traditional antidepressants. This signals the need for novel drugs that can 
effectively treat this patient population. Recently, we have demonstrated that 
(R,S)-ketamine is a prophylactic against a variety of stressors, but have yet to 
test if it is protective against inflammatory-induced vulnerability to a 
stressor. Here, male 129S6/SvEv mice were administered saline or (R,S)-ketamine 
(30 mg/kg) 6 days before an injection of vehicle (VEH) or lipopolysaccharide 
(LPS) (0.83 or 1.0 mg/kg, serotypes O111:B4 or O127:B8). Twenty-four hours after 
LPS administration, mice were administered a contextual fear conditioning (CFC) 
paradigm, followed by a context re-exposure and the forced swim test (FST). In a 
separate cohort, we tested if (R,S)-ketamine was effective as a prophylactic 
against polyinosinic-polycytidylic acid (PIC), a viral mimetic. (R,S)-ketamine 
was effective as a prophylactic for attenuating learned fear in the O111:B4 and 
O127:B8 strains of LPS. (R,S)-ketamine was also effective as a prophylactic for 
decreasing stress-induced depressive-like behavior in the O111:B4 and O127:B8 
strains of LPS. Both of these effects were limited to administration of 1.0, but 
not 0.83 mg/kg of the O111:B4 and O127:B8 strains of LPS. (R,S)-ketamine was not 
effective against either stress phenotype following PIC administration. These 
data suggest that prophylactic (R,S)-ketamine may protect against selective 
inflammation-induced stress phenotypes following an inflammatory challenge. 
Future studies will be necessary to determine if (R,S)-ketamine can be useful in 
patient populations with peripheral inflammation.

Copyright © 2019 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.bbr.2019.112238
PMID: 31563463 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


316. Nutrients. 2019 Sep 9;11(9):2161. doi: 10.3390/nu11092161.

Leucine-Histidine Dipeptide Attenuates Microglial Activation and Emotional 
Disturbances Induced by Brain Inflammation and Repeated Social Defeat Stress.

Ano Y(1), Kita M(2), Kitaoka S(3)(4), Furuyashiki T(5)(6).

Author information:
(1)Research Laboratories for Health Science & Food Technologies, Kirin Holdings 
Company Ltd, Kanazawa-ku, Yokohama-shi, Kanagawa 236-0004, Japan. 
Yasuhisa_Ano@kirin.co.jp.
(2)Research Laboratories for Health Science & Food Technologies, Kirin Holdings 
Company Ltd, Kanazawa-ku, Yokohama-shi, Kanagawa 236-0004, Japan. 
Masahiro_Kita@kirin.co.jp.
(3)Division of Pharmacology, Kobe University Graduate School of Medicine, Kobe 
650-0017, Japan. skitaoka@med.kobe-u.ac.jp.
(4)Japan Agency for Medical Research and Development (AMED)-CREST, Chiyoda-ku, 
Tokyo 100-0004, Japan. skitaoka@med.kobe-u.ac.jp.
(5)Division of Pharmacology, Kobe University Graduate School of Medicine, Kobe 
650-0017, Japan. tfuruya@med.kobe-u.ac.jp.
(6)Japan Agency for Medical Research and Development (AMED)-CREST, Chiyoda-ku, 
Tokyo 100-0004, Japan. tfuruya@med.kobe-u.ac.jp.

The number of patients with mental illnesses is rapidly increasing, and daily 
lifestyle is closely associated with the development of symptoms. It is 
suggested that inflammatory molecules derived from microglia play crucial roles 
for the pathophysiology of depression. In the present study, we discovered that 
leucine-histidine (LH) dipeptide suppressed activation of primary microglia. The 
effects of LH dipeptide orally administered were measured using tail suspension 
test (TST) in mice injected with lipopolysaccharide and social interaction test 
in mice received social defeat stress. LH dipeptide reduced pro-inflammatory 
cytokines upon stimulation in microglia. Orally administered LH dipeptide was 
delivered to the brain and suppressed the production of pro-inflammatory 
cytokines in the brain and concomitant depression-like behavior in the TST. 
Moreover, oral administration of LH dipeptide suppressed the induction of 
depression- and anxiety-like behaviors induced by repeated social defeat stress. 
These results indicate that LH dipeptide suppressed the activation of microglia 
and ameliorated depression-associated emotional disturbances. Further, we found 
that LH dipeptide was abundant in various fermented products. Together with 
previous epidemiological reports that daily intake of these fermented foods is 
negatively associated with the incidence of psychiatric diseases, our findings 
suggest that food rich in LH dipeptide may improve mental health.

DOI: 10.3390/nu11092161
PMCID: PMC6770249
PMID: 31505850 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Ano, Y. and Kita, M. are employed by Kirin 
Holdings Co. Ltd. All other authors declare no competing interests.


317. Eur J Neurosci. 2020 Jul;52(1):2694-2704. doi: 10.1111/ejn.14565. Epub 2019
Sep  17.

Single housing-induced effects on cognitive impairment and depression-like 
behavior in male and female mice involve neuroplasticity-related signaling.

Liu N(1)(2)(3), Wang Y(3)(4), An AY(3), Banker C(3), Qian YH(1), O'Donnell 
JM(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Human Anatomy, Histology and Embryology, School of Basic 
Medical Sciences, Xi'an Jiaotong University Health Science Center, Xi'an, China.
(2)Department of Traditional Medical Orthopedics, Honghui Hospital, Xi'an 
Jiaotong University, Xi'an, Shanxi, China.
(3)Department of Pharmaceutical Sciences, School of Pharmacy & Pharmaceutical 
Sciences, University at Buffalo, the State University of New York, Buffalo, NY, 
USA.
(4)College of Pharmacy, Fujian University of Traditional Chinese Medicine, 
Fuzhou, China.

Single-housed stress elicits a range of social isolation-related behavioral and 
neurobiological abnormalities. To investigate single housing-induced behavioral 
changes and sex differences on stress outcomes, we examined single-housed 
stress-induced learning and memory impairment, depression-like behaviors, 
neuroplasticity abnormalities and underlying mechanism. The results showed that 
male and female mice socially isolated for 8 weeks had significantly decreased 
memory acquisition, as demonstrated in the learning curve of the Morris water 
maze task. Memory consolidation and retrieval were also decreased in both the 
single-housed male and female mice. These findings were corroborated further by 
the two classical animal models, Y-maze and novel object recognition tests, as 
demonstrated by reduced spontaneous alternation and recognition index in both 
sexes of single-housed mice. Subsequent studies suggested that single-housed 
male mice exhibited increased immobility time in both the forced swim and tail 
suspension tests, while the female mice only exhibited increased immobility time 
in the tail suspension test. Moreover, single-housed stress significantly 
decreased the apical and basal branch points, dendritic length, and spine 
density in the CA1 of hippocampal neurons in both male and female mice. These 
effects were consistent with decreased neuroplasticity and 
neuroprotective-related molecules such as synaptophysin, PSD95, PKA, pCREB and 
BDNF expression. These findings suggest that loss of neuronal remodeling and 
neuroprotective mechanisms due to single housing are involved in behavioral 
changes in both male and female mice. The results provide further evidence that 
neuroplasticity-related signaling plays a crucial role in isolation-induced 
effects on neuropsychiatric behavioral deficits in both sexes.

© 2019 Federation of European Neuroscience Societies and John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/ejn.14565
PMID: 31471985 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


318. Naunyn Schmiedebergs Arch Pharmacol. 2020 Jan;393(1):111-120. doi: 
10.1007/s00210-019-01714-2. Epub 2019 Aug 28.

Effects of cholecalciferol on behavior and production of reactive oxygen species 
in female mice subjected to corticosterone-induced model of depression.

da Silva Souza SV(1), da Rosa PB(2), Neis VB(2), Moreira JD(1), Rodrigues 
ALS(2), Moretti M(3).

Author information:
(1)Graduate Program in Nutrition, Health Sciences Center, Federal University of 
Santa Catarina, Florianópolis, SC, 88040-900, Brazil.
(2)Biochemistry Department, Biological Science Center, Federal University of 
Santa Catarina, Florianópolis, SC, 88040-900, Brazil.
(3)Biochemistry Department, Biological Science Center, Federal University of 
Santa Catarina, Florianópolis, SC, 88040-900, Brazil. 
morganamoretti@hotmail.com.

Major depressive disorder (or depression) is one of the most frequent 
psychiatric illnesses in the population, with chronic stress being one of the 
main etiological factors. Studies have shown that cholecalciferol 
supplementation can lead to attenuation of the depressive state; however, the 
biochemical mechanisms involved in the relationship between cholecalciferol and 
depression are not very well known. The objective of this study was to 
investigate the effects of the administration of cholecalciferol on behavioral 
parameters (tail suspension test (TST), open field test (OFT), splash test (ST)) 
and redox state (dichlorofluorescein (DCF)) in adult female Swiss mice subjected 
to a model of depression induced by chronic corticosterone treatment. 
Corticosterone (20 mg/kg, p.o.) was administered once a day for 21 days. For 
investigation of the antidepressant-like effect, cholecalciferol (100 IU/kg) or 
fluoxetine (10 mg/kg, positive control) was administered p.o. within the last 
7 days of corticosterone administration. After the treatments, the behavioral 
tests and biochemical analyses in the hippocampus and prefrontal cortex of the 
rodent samples were performed. Animals submitted to repeated corticosterone 
administration showed a depressive-like behavior, evidenced by a significant 
increase in the immobility time in the TST, which was significantly reduced by 
the administration of cholecalciferol or fluoxetine. In addition, the groups 
treated with cholecalciferol and fluoxetine showed a significant decrease in the 
production of reactive oxygen species (ROS) in the hippocampus. These results 
show that cholecalciferol, similar to fluoxetine, has a potential 
antidepressant-like effect, which may be related to the lower ROS production.

DOI: 10.1007/s00210-019-01714-2
PMID: 31463580 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


319. Sheng Li Xue Bao. 2019 Aug 25;71(4):537-546.

[Intermittent hypoxic preconditioning relieves fear and anxiety behavior in 
post-traumatic stress model mice].

[Article in Chinese]

Ding FS(1)(2), Cheng X(2), Zhao T(2), Zhao YQ(2), Zhang GB(2), Wu HT(2), Zhu 
LL(3), Wu KW(1)(4).

Author information:
(1)Graduate School of Anhui Medical University, Hefei 230023, China.
(2)Institute of Military Cognition and Brain Sciences, Academy of Military 
Medical Sciences, Beijing 100850, China.
(3)Institute of Military Cognition and Brain Sciences, Academy of Military 
Medical Sciences, Beijing 100850, China. linglingzhuamms@126.com.
(4)Institute of Military Cognition and Brain Sciences, Academy of Military 
Medical Sciences, Beijing 100850, China. ammswu@sina.com.

Intermittent hypoxia (IH) has preventive and therapeutic effects on 
hypertension, myocardial infarction, cerebral ischemia and depression, but its 
effect on post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD) has not been known. In this 
study, we used inescapable electric foot shock combined with context recapture 
to build PTSD mouse model. The levels of fear and anxiety were valued by the 
open field, the elevated plus maze (EPM) and the fear conditioning tests; the 
level of spatial memory was valued by Y maze test; the number of Fos positive 
neurons in hippocampus, amygdala and medial prefrontal cortex was valued by 
immunohistochemical staining; and the protein expressions of hypoxia inducible 
factor-1α (HIF-1α), vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) and brain derived 
neurotrophic factor (BDNF) in these brain area were valued by Western blot. The 
results showed that IH and model (foot shock) had an interaction on percentage 
of entering open arms (OE%) in EPM and freezing time and the number of fecal 
pellets in fear conditioning test. IH increased OE% in EPM and reduced the 
freezing time and the number of fecal pellets in fear conditioning test in PTSD 
model mice. At the same time, IH reduced the number of Fos positive neurons in 
the hippocampus, amygdala and medial prefrontal cortex of PTSD model mice, and 
increased the protein expression levels of HIF-1α, VEGF and BDNF in these brain 
tissues. In conclusion, IH pretreatment can relieve fear and anxiety behavior in 
post-traumatic stress model mice, suggesting that IH may be an effective means 
of preventing PTSD.

PMID: 31440750 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


320. Biosci Rep. 2019 Sep 13;39(9):BSR20190186. doi: 10.1042/BSR20190186. Print
2019  Sep 30.

MiR-124 suppression in the prefrontal cortex reduces depression-like behavior in 
mice.

Gu Z(1)(2), Pan J(3), Chen L(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychiatry, The First Affiliated Hospital, Jinan University, 
Guangzhou City 510630, P.R. China.
(2)Department of Psychiatry, Guangzhou First People's Hospital, School of 
Medicine, South China University of Technology, Guangzhou City, Guangdong 
Province 510180, P.R. China.
(3)Department of Psychiatry, The First Affiliated Hospital, Jinan University, 
Guangzhou City 510630, P.R. China jiypan@126.com.

Depression is a potentially life-threatening mental disorder with unknown 
etiology. Several microRNAs (miRNAs) have been shown to play critical roles in 
the etiology of depression. Here, we aim to elucidate the anti-depressive 
behavior of miR-124 suppression in prefrontal cortex (PFC). Quantitative 
real-time PCR (RT-PCR) was used to evaluate the expression of miR-124 and SIRT1 
in the PFC of a chronic unpredictable mild stress (CUMS) model. The PFC of 
C57BL/6J mice was bilaterally injected with lentiviral vectors (LV) for ectopic 
expression of SIRT1, miR-124, or miR-124 inhibitor (si-miR-124). The 
anti-depressive behavior was observed after injection of LV-SIRT1 or 
LV-si-miR-124 into the PFC, using behavior tests including latency to feed, food 
and water intake, sucrose preference test, and forced swimming test. MiR-124 
overexpression and inhibition resulted in upregulation and down-regulation of 
SIRT1 and cyclic AMP responsive element binding protein 1 (CREB1), respectively. 
MiR-124 overexpression exacerbated depression-like behaviors and decreased 
SIRT1. Further, dual-luciferase assay confirmed that SIRT1 was a target of 
miR-124. Taken together, a potential molecular regulation of miR-124 on SIRT1 is 
revealed by our study and miR-124 suppression in PFC is a potential strategy to 
reduce depression-like behavior.

© 2019 The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1042/BSR20190186
PMCID: PMC6744582
PMID: 31431514 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that there are no competing 
interests associated with the manuscript.


321. Biochem Biophys Res Commun. 2019 Oct 15;518(2):351-356. doi: 
10.1016/j.bbrc.2019.08.061. Epub 2019 Aug 15.

Trans-cinnamaldehyde shows anti-depression effect in the forced swimming test 
and possible involvement of the endocannabinoid system.

Lin J(1), Song Z(2), Chen X(1), Zhao R(2), Chen J(2), Chen H(3), Yang X(1), Wu 
Z(4).

Author information:
(1)School of Basic Medicine Science, Shanghai University of Traditional Chinese 
Medicine, 1200 Cailun Road, Shanghai, China.
(2)School of Pharmacy, Shanghai University of Traditional Chinese Medicine, 1200 
Cailun Road, Shanghai, China.
(3)School of Nursing, Shanghai University of Traditional Chinese Medicine, 1200 
Cailun Road, Shanghai, China.
(4)School of Basic Medicine Science, Shanghai University of Traditional Chinese 
Medicine, 1200 Cailun Road, Shanghai, China. Electronic address: 
wzp@shutcm.edu.cn.

Depression is a mental disease that significantly reduces the quality of 
patients' life. Around 322 million people of all ages carry the heavy burden of 
depression on a worldwide scale, with a life-time prevalence of 20% according to 
the WHO. Trans-cinnamaldehyde (TCA) is an excellent COX-2 inhibitor in central 
nervous system which is a main constituent of GUIZHI as a member of traditional 
Chinese herb. Furthermore, previous studies demonstrated that TCA suppressed 
depression-like behavior in chronic unexpected mild stress, plus maze test and 
open field test. However, the molecular mechanism of TCA anti-depression effect 
is not clear. We examined the immobility of TCA pretreated male BALB/c mice in 
the forced swimming test (FST). Results show that TCA (50 mg/kg, po) revealed a 
significant effect on reduced immobility in the FST, compared with SAL group 
which indicated that TCA suppressed depression-like behavior. Moreover, TCA 
elevated the level of 5-HT and decreased the ratio of Glu/GABA in mice 
hippocampus. Compared with SAL + FST group, TCA + FST group significantly 
decreased COX-2, TRPV1 and CB1 protein level in mice hippocampus (p < 0.05, 
p < 0.05, p < 0.01). These findings suggest that TCA treatment exerted 
anti-depressive effect and was able to regulate neurotransmitters in the FST. 
This effect may have positive influence on the endocannabinoid (eCB) system.

Copyright © 2019 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.bbrc.2019.08.061
PMID: 31421826 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


322. BMC Complement Altern Med. 2019 Aug 14;19(1):215. doi: 
10.1186/s12906-019-2613-6.

Xiaoyaosan exerts antidepressant-like effects by regulating the functions of 
astrocytes and EAATs in the prefrontal cortex of mice.

Liu Y(1)(2), Ding XF(3), Wang XX(2), Zou XJ(1), Li XJ(1)(3), Liu YY(3), Li J(2), 
Qian XY(2), Chen JX(4)(5)(6).

Author information:
(1)School of Pre-clinical Medicine, Hubei University of Chinese Medicine, Wuhan, 
430065, China.
(2)School of Pre-clinical Medicine, Henan University of Chinese Medicine, 
Zhengzhou, 450046, China.
(3)School of Traditional Chinese medicine, Beijing University of Chinese 
Medicine, No. 11 North Third Ring Road Chaoyang District, Beijing, 100029, 
China.
(4)School of Pre-clinical Medicine, Hubei University of Chinese Medicine, Wuhan, 
430065, China. chenjiaxu@hotmail.com.
(5)Formula-pattern Research Center, School of Traditional Chinese Medicine, 
Jinan University, Guangzhou, 510632, China. chenjiaxu@hotmail.com.
(6)School of Traditional Chinese medicine, Beijing University of Chinese 
Medicine, No. 11 North Third Ring Road Chaoyang District, Beijing, 100029, 
China. chenjiaxu@hotmail.com.

BACKGROUND: Mounting evidence indicates that the cerebral cortex is an important 
physiological system of emotional activity, and its dysfunction may be the main 
cause of stress. Glutamate is the primary excitatory neurotransmitter in the 
central nervous system (CNS), which initiates rapid signal transmission in the 
synapse before its reuptake into the surrounding glia, specifically astrocytes 
(ASTs). The astrocytic excitatory amino acid transporters 1 (EAAT1) and 2 
(EAAT2) are the major transporters that take up synaptic glutamate to maintain 
optimal extracellular glutamic levels, thus preventing accumulation in the 
synaptic cleft and ensuing excitotoxicity. Growing evidence has shown that 
excitotoxicity is associated with depression. Therefore, we hypothesized that 
the underlying antidepressant-like mechanism of Xiaoyaosan (XYS), a Chinese 
herbal formula, may be related to the regulation of astrocytic EAATs. Therefore, 
we studied the antidepressant mechanism of XYS on the basis of EAAT dysfunction 
in ASTs.
METHODS: Eighty adult C57BL/6 J mice were randomly divided into 4 groups: a 
control group, a chronic unpredictable mild stress (CUMS) group, a Xiaoyaosan 
(XYS) treatment group and a fluoxetine hydrochloride (Flu) treatment group. 
Except for the control group, mice in the other groups all received chronic 
unpredictable mild stress for 21 days. Mice in the control and CUMS groups 
received gavage administration with 0.5 mL of normal saline (NS) for 21 days, 
and mice in the XYS and Flu treatment groups were administered dosages of 
0.25 g/kg/d and 2.6 mg/kg/d by gavage. The effects of XYS on the depressive-like 
behavioral tests, including the open field test (OFT), forced swimming test 
(FST) and sucrose preference test (SPT), were examined. The glutamate (Glu) 
concentrations of the prefrontal cortex (PFC) were detected with colorimetry. 
The morphology of neurons in the PFC was observed by Nissl staining. The 
expression of glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP), NeuN, EAAT1 and EAAT2 
proteins in the PFC of mice was detected by using Western blotting and 
immunohistochemistry. Quantitative real-time PCR (qPCR) was used to detect the 
expression of the GFAP, NeuN, EAAT1 and EAAT2 genes in the PFC of mice.
RESULTS: The results of behavioral tests showed that CUMS-induced mice exhibited 
depressive-like behavior, which could be improved in some tests with XYS and Flu 
treatment. Immunohistochemistry and Western blot analysis showed that the 
protein levels of GFAP, NeuN, EAAT1 and EAAT2 in the PFC of CUMS mice were 
significantly lower than those in the control group, and these changes could be 
reversed by XYS and Flu. The results of qPCR analysis showed that the expression 
of GFAP, NeuN, EAAT1 and EAAT2 mRNAs in the PFC of CUMS mice was not 
significantly changed, with the exception of EAAT2, compared with that of the 
control group, while the expression of the above mRNAs was significantly higher 
in the XYS and Flu groups than that in the CUMS group.
CONCLUSION: XYS may exert antidepressant-like effects by improving the functions 
of AST and EAATs and attenuating glutamate-induced neuronal damage in the 
frontal cortex.

DOI: 10.1186/s12906-019-2613-6
PMCID: PMC6694586
PMID: 31412844 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that they have no competing 
interests.


323. Biomed Pharmacother. 2019 Oct;118:109263. doi: 10.1016/j.biopha.2019.109263.
 Epub 2019 Jul 29.

Roman chamomile inhalation combined with clomipramine treatment improves 
treatment-resistant depression-like behavior in mice.

Hashikawa-Hobara N(1), Otsuka A(2), Ishikawa R(3), Hashikawa N(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Life Science, Okayama University of Science, 1-1 Ridai-cho, 
Kita-ku, Okayama, 700-0005, Japan. Electronic address: hobara@dls.ous.ac.jp.
(2)Department of Life Science, Okayama University of Science, 1-1 Ridai-cho, 
Kita-ku, Okayama, 700-0005, Japan. Electronic address: s18lm04oa@ous.jp.
(3)Department of Life Science, Okayama University of Science, 1-1 Ridai-cho, 
Kita-ku, Okayama, 700-0005, Japan. Electronic address: r.s2.sy@icloud.com.
(4)Department of Life Science, Okayama University of Science, 1-1 Ridai-cho, 
Kita-ku, Okayama, 700-0005, Japan. Electronic address: hashikawa@dls.ous.ac.jp.

It is well known that chamomile is one of the oldest known medicinal herbs and 
has been used to treat various disorders, but it is mainly German chamomile. The 
effects of Roman chamomile on depression still unclear. In this study, we used 
chronically stressed mice to investigate whether inhalation of Roman chamomile 
essential oil affects depression-like behavior. We previously reported that 
restraint and water immersion stress produce depression-like behavior and a 
blunted response to the tricyclic antidepressant clomipramine. Each mouse was 
exposed to restraint and water immersion stress for 15 days, and resistance to 
the effect of clomipramine was induced in a behavioral despair paradigm. In the 
present study, we found that cotreatment with clomipramine and inhalation of 
Roman chamomile attenuated depression-like behavior in a forced swim test. Next, 
we examined the hippocampal mRNA levels of two cytokines, tumor necrosis factor 
(TNF) alpha and interleukin-6 (IL-6); a neurotrophic factor, brain 
derived-neurotrophic factor (BDNF); and nerve growth factor (NGF). TNF alpha, 
IL-6 and BDNF mRNA levels did not change in the hippocampus of stressed mice. 
However, the NGF mRNA level was significantly decreased, and this decrease was 
not attenuated by treatment with clomipramine or inhalation of Roman chamomile 
alone. We also examined whether Roman chamomile combined with clomipramine 
treatment affects hippocampal neurogenesis and serum corticosterone levels. 
Stressed mice had fewer doublecortin (DCX)-positive cells in the subgranular 
zone of the dentate gyrus, but this was significantly attenuated by Roman 
chamomile and clomipramine treatment. In addition, the serum corticosterone 
level was also significantly decreased by treatment with Roman chamomile and 
clomipramine. These results suggest that Roman chamomile inhalation may enhance 
the antidepressant effect of clomipramine by increasing hippocampal neurogenesis 
and modulating corticosterone levels in patients with treatment-resistant 
depression.

Copyright © 2019 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Masson SAS.. All rights 
reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.biopha.2019.109263
PMID: 31369988 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


324. Toxicol Appl Pharmacol. 2019 Sep 15;379:114688. doi:
10.1016/j.taap.2019.114688.  Epub 2019 Jul 21.

Andrographolide triggers autophagy-mediated inflammation inhibition and 
attenuates chronic unpredictable mild stress (CUMS)-induced depressive-like 
behavior in mice.

Geng J(1), Liu J(2), Yuan X(3), Liu W(4), Guo W(5).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmacology and Laboratory of Aging and Nervous Diseases, 
Jiangsu Key Laboratory of Translational Research and Therapy for 
Neuro-Psycho-Diseases, School of Pharmaceutical Sciences, Soochow University, 
Suzhou, China.
(2)Department of Clinical Pharmacy, Nanjing Brain Hospital, Nanjing Medical 
University, Nanjing, China.
(3)Pathology Department, The first affiliated hospital of Soochow university, 
Suzhou 215123, China.
(4)State Key Laboratory of Pharmaceutical Biotechnology, School of Life 
Sciences, Nanjing University, 163 Xianlin Avenue, 210093 Nanjing, China.
(5)State Key Laboratory of Pharmaceutical Biotechnology, School of Life 
Sciences, Nanjing University, 163 Xianlin Avenue, 210093 Nanjing, China. 
Electronic address: guowj@nju.edu.cn.

Depression is one of the most common psychiatric disorders in the world. 
Andrographolide is a natural product that displays evident anti-inflammatory 
activities. The purpose of the present study was to explore the antidepressant 
potential of andrographolide in chronic unpredictable mild stress (CUMS)-induced 
depressive-like behavior in mice. Performance in behavioral tests such as the 
forced swim test, sucrose preference test, tail suspension test and Y-maze was 
improved following andrographolide administration. The pro-inflammatory mediator 
NO and cytokines IL-1β, IL-6 as well as TNF-α were measured in the prefrontal 
cortex using a reagent kit, ELISA and real-time PCR. NF-κB signaling, NLRP3 
inflammasome assembly and autophagy process were examined in the prefrontal 
cortex using western blotting. It was observed that 5 mg/kg andrographolide 
treatment obviously improved depressive-like behavior. In addition, 5 mg/kg 
andrographolide treatment also decreased the expression of pro-inflammatory 
mediators and cytokines (NO, COX-2, iNOS, IL-1β, IL-6 and TNF-α), NF-κB 
signaling (p-p65, p-IκBα) and NLRP3 inflammasome assembly (NLRP3, ASC and 
caspase-1) in the prefrontal cortex. Moreover, autophagy levels increased after 
andrographolide treatment. Finally, the antidepressant and anti-inflammatory 
effects of andrographolide were compromised by the application of chloroquine 
(CQ), which suggested that andrographolide-induced autophagy was mainly affected 
by the initiation rather than the blocking of autophagic flux. In conclusion, 
these results suggest that andrographolide produces antidepressant-like and 
anti-inflammatory effects in CUMS-induced mice which maybe mediated by the 
upregulation of autophagy.

Copyright © 2019 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.taap.2019.114688
PMID: 31340160 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


325. Front Psychol. 2019 Jul 5;10:1353. doi: 10.3389/fpsyg.2019.01353.
eCollection  2019.

Effects of Acupuncture on Chronic Stress-Induced Depression-Like Behavior and 
Its Central Neural Mechanism.

Lee MJ(1), Ryu JS(1), Won SK(1), Namgung U(1), Jung J(2), Lee SM(2), Park JY(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Korean Medicine, College of Korean Medicine, Daejeon 
University, Daejeon, South Korea.
(2)Clinical Medicine Division, Korea Institute of Oriental Medicine, Daejeon, 
South Korea.

Depression is a serious psychiatric disorder with an enormous socioeconomic 
burden, and it is commonly comorbid with pain, chronic fatigue, or other 
inflammatory diseases. Recent studies have shown that acupuncture is an 
effective therapeutic method for reducing depressive symptoms; however, the 
underlying mechanism remains unknown. In this study, we investigated the effects 
of acupuncture on chronic stress-induced depression-like behavior and its 
central neural mechanisms in the brain. We induced chronic restraint stress 
(CRS) in male C57BL/6 mice for 14 or 28 consecutive days. Acupuncture treatment 
was performed at KI10·LR8·LU8·LR4 or control points for 7 or 14 days. 
Depression-like behavior was assessed with the open field test. Then, brain 
neural activity involving c-Fos and serotonin-related mechanisms via the 5-HT1A 
and 5-HT1B receptors were investigated. Acupuncture treatment at 
KI10·LR8·LU8·LR4 points rescued the depressive-like behavior, while control 
points (LU8·LR4·HT8·LR2) and non-acupoints on the hips did not. Brain neural 
activity was changed in the hippocampus, cingulate cortex, motor cortex, insular 
cortex, thalamus, and the hypothalamus after acupuncture treatment. Acupuncture 
treatment increased expression of 5-HT1A receptor in the cortex, hippocampus, 
thalamus, and the hypothalamus, and of 5-HT1B in the cortex and thalamus. In 
conclusion, acupuncture treatment at KI10·LR8·LU8·LR4 was effective in 
alleviating the depressive-like behavior in mice, and this therapeutic effect 
was produced through central brain neural activity and serotonin receptor 
modulation.

DOI: 10.3389/fpsyg.2019.01353
PMCID: PMC6625224
PMID: 31333523


326. Front Behav Neurosci. 2019 Jun 18;13:131. doi: 10.3389/fnbeh.2019.00131. 
eCollection 2019.

Loss of Glutamate Decarboxylase 67 in Somatostatin-Expressing Neurons Leads to 
Anxiety-Like Behavior and Alteration in the Akt/GSK3β Signaling Pathway.

Miyata S(1), Kumagaya R(2), Kakizaki T(1), Fujihara K(1), Wakamatsu K(2), 
Yanagawa Y(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Genetic and Behavioral Neuroscience, Graduate School of 
Medicine, Gunma University, Maebashi, Japan.
(2)Division of Molecular Science, Graduate School of Science and Technology, 
Gunma University, Kiryu, Japan.

Major depressive disorder (MDD) is a highly prevalent psychiatric disorder 
worldwide. Several lines of evidence suggest that the dysfunction of 
somatostatin (SOM) neurons is associated with the pathophysiology of MDD. 
Importantly, most SOM neurons are γ-aminobutyric acid (GABA) interneurons. 
However, whether the dysfunction of GABAergic neurotransmission from SOM neurons 
contributes to the pathophysiology of MDD remains elusive. To address this 
issue, we investigated the emotional behaviors and relevant molecular mechanism 
in mice lacking glutamate decarboxylase 67 (GAD67), an isoform of 
GABA-synthesizing enzyme, specifically in SOM neurons (SOM-GAD67 mice). The 
SOM-GAD67 mice exhibited anxiety-like behavior in the open-field test without an 
effect on locomotor activity. The SOM-GAD67 mice showed depression-like behavior 
in neither the forced swimming test nor the sucrose preference test. In 
addition, the ability to form contextual fear memory was normal in the SOM-GAD67 
mice. Furthermore, the plasma corticosterone level was normal in the SOM-GAD67 
mice both under baseline and stress conditions. The expression ratios of 
p-AktSer473/Akt and p-GSK3βSer9/GSK3β were decreased in the frontal cortex of 
SOM-GAD67 mice. Taken together, these data suggest that the loss of GAD67 from 
SOM neurons may lead to the development of anxiety-like but not depression-like 
states mediated by modification of Akt/GSK3β activities.

DOI: 10.3389/fnbeh.2019.00131
PMCID: PMC6591520
PMID: 31275123


327. Acta Pharm. 2018 Sep 1;68(3):361-371. doi: 10.2478/acph-2018-0028.

Low molecular mass chondroitin sulfate suppresses chronic unpredictable mild 
stress-induced depression-like behavior in mice.

Si XM(1), Tian YH(1), Zhang SS(1), Gao H(2), Liu K(3), Jin JY(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmacology School of Pharmacy, Qingdao University, Qingdao, 
266021, China.
(2)Department of Medicinal Chemistry School of Pharmacy, Qingdao University, 
Qingdao, 266021, China.
(3)Department of Pharmaceutical Analysis, School of Pharmacy, Qingdao 
University, Qingdao, 266021, China.

The present study is aimed at testing the antidepressant--like effects and 
probable mechanisms of action of low molecular mass chondroitin sulfate (LMMCS) 
on depression induced by chronic unpredictable mild stress (CUMS) in mice. Four 
weeks of CUMS exposure resulted in depressive-like behavior, expressed by a 
significant decrease in the locomotor activity and sucrose consumption and 
increased immobility time in the forced swim test. Further, there was a 
significant reduction of 5-HT level in the hippocampus region of depressed mice. 
Treatment of mice for four weeks with LMMCS ameliorated significantly both the 
behavioral and biochemical changes induced by CUMS. These novel results suggest 
that LMMCS produces an antidepressant-like effect in mice subjected to CUMS, 
which might be related, at least in part, to the increase of 5-HT concentration 
in the hippocampus.

DOI: 10.2478/acph-2018-0028
PMID: 31259700 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


328. J Nutr Sci Vitaminol (Tokyo). 2019;65(3):251-257. doi: 10.3177/jnsv.65.251.

Ginger-Degraded Collagen Hydrolysate Exhibits Antidepressant Activity in Mice.

Mizushige T(1), Nogimura D(1), Nagai A(1), Mitsuhashi H(1), Taga Y(2), Kusubata 
M(2), Hattori S(2), Kabuyama Y(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Applied Biological Chemistry, Faculty of Agriculture, 
Utsunomiya University.
(2)Nippi Research Institute of Biomatrix.

Collagen is the most abundant protein in animals. Collagen hydrolysate has been 
found to have multiple functions in the skin, bones, joints, muscles, and blood 
vessels. Recently, it has been reported that the low molecular weight fraction 
of collagen hydrolysate exhibited anxiolytic activity, suggesting that collagen 
peptides affect brain functions. In the present study, we found that oral 
administration of ginger-degraded collagen hydrolysate (GDCH) significantly 
decreased depression-like behavior in a forced swim test, suggesting that GDCH 
exhibited antidepressant activity in mice. The antidepressant activity of GDCH 
was abolished by pre-treatment with an antagonist of the dopamine receptor, but 
not treatment with a serotonin receptor antagonist. GDCH significantly increased 
gene expression of glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor (GDNF) and 
ciliary neurotrophic factor (CNTF) in the hippocampus, molecules that affect the 
differentiation and survival of neurons, relative to that in the control 
condition. Meanwhile, there were no changes in the gene expression of 
brain-derived neurotrophic factor, nerve growth factor, and neurotrophin-3, 
major factors related to depression-like behavior. We also found that GDCH 
exhibited antidepressant activity in corticosterone-administered mice in a model 
of stress. In addition, GDCH increased GDNF and CNTF expression in the stressed 
condition, suggesting that mechanisms of the antidepressant activity of GDCH 
were the same in unstressed and stressed conditions. These results imply that 
GDCH exhibits antidepressant activity in unstressed and stressed conditions in 
mice. The upregulation of neurotrophic genes in the hippocampus may contribute 
to the reduction of depression-like behavior via a dopamine signal pathway 
modulated by GDCH.

DOI: 10.3177/jnsv.65.251
PMID: 31257265 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


329. Pharmacol Res. 2019 Aug;146:104310. doi: 10.1016/j.phrs.2019.104310. Epub
2019  Jun 20.

Serotonergically dependent antidepressant-like activity on behavior and stress 
axis responsivity of acacetin.

Xiao WZ(1), Zhou WH(2), Ma Q(2), Cui WG(2), Mei QY(3), Zhao X(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Endocrinology and Rheumamatology, Shanghai Pudong Hospital, 
Fudan University Pudong Medical Center, Shanghai, China.
(2)Department of Pharmacology, Ningbo University, School of Medical Science, 
Ningbo, China.
(3)Department of Neurosurgery, Shanghai Changzheng Hospital, the Second Military 
Medical University, Shanghai, China. Electronic address: meiqiyong@smmu.edu.cn.
(4)Department of Pharmacology, Ningbo University, School of Medical Science, 
Ningbo, China. Electronic address: zhaoxin@nbu.edu.cn.

Acacetin, a natural flavonoid, possesses broad spectrum of pharmacological and 
biochemical activities, such as neuroprotection, antinociception and inhibition 
of monoamine oxidase. The current work aimed to investigate the 
antidepressant-like activity of acacetin in mice and explore the underlying 
mechanism(s). Chronic, but not acute, acacetin treatment (5, 15 or 45 mg/kg, 
p.o., once per day for three weeks) exerted in mice dose-dependently 
antidepressant-like activity, assessed by forced swim test (FST) and tail 
suspension test (TST). Although acacetin-treated mice showed normal circadian 
hypothalamo-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis activity, their endocrine responsivity 
to both acute restraint stress and intracerebroventricular injection of 
corticotropin-releasing factor (CRF) was buffered. The acacetin-triggered 
antidepressant-like activities are serotonergically dependent, since its impacts 
on behavior and stress responsivity were totally abolished by chemical depletion 
of brain serotonin by PCPA. Consistently, acacetin-treated mice showed escalated 
levels of brain monoamines especially serotonin and depressed activity of 
monoamine oxidase. Moreover, the acacetin-evoked anti-depression was 
preferentially counteracted by co-administration of 5-HT1A receptor antagonist 
WAY-100635, but potentiated by 5-HT1A receptor agonist 8-OH-DPAT and 
sub-effective dose of serotonergic antidepressant fluoxetine, suggesting a 
pivotal engagement of 5-HT1A related serotonergic system. In vitro, acacetin 
(1-100 nM) increased the Emax of 8-OH-DPAT. Collectively, these findings confirm 
that chronic acatetin administration to mice engenders antidepressant-like 
efficacy on both behavior and stress axis responsivity, with serotonergic system 
that preferentially couples with 5-HT1A receptors being critically involved.

Copyright © 2019 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.phrs.2019.104310
PMID: 31229563 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


330. Neuroscience. 2019 Aug 10;413:1-10. doi: 10.1016/j.neuroscience.2019.06.016.
 Epub 2019 Jun 20.

Sex-dependent effects of early unstable post-natal environment on response to 
positive and negative stimuli in adult mice.

Di Segni M(1), Andolina D(1), D'Addario SL(2), Babicola L(3), Ielpo D(2), 
Luchetti A(4), Pascucci T(1), Lo Iacono L(1), D'Amato FR(5), Ventura R(6).

Author information:
(1)Dept. of Psychology and Center "Daniel Bovet", Sapienza University, 00184 
Rome, Italy; IRCSS Fondazione Santa Lucia, 00142 Rome, Italy.
(2)Dept. of Psychology and Center "Daniel Bovet", Sapienza University, 00184 
Rome, Italy; Behavioral Neuroscience PhD Programme, Sapienza University, 00184, 
Rome, Italy.
(3)Dept. of Applied and Biotechnological Clinical Sciences, University of 
L'Aquila, 67100 L'Aquila, Italy.
(4)Cell Biology and Neurobiology Institute, National Research Council, 00143 
Rome, Italy.
(5)Cell Biology and Neurobiology Institute, National Research Council, 00143 
Rome, Italy; Institut Universitaire en Santé Mentale de Québec, Laval 
University, Quebec, Canada.
(6)Dept. of Psychology and Center "Daniel Bovet", Sapienza University, 00184 
Rome, Italy; IRCSS Fondazione Santa Lucia, 00142 Rome, Italy. Electronic 
address: rossella.ventura@uniroma1.it.

Alterations in early environmental conditions that interfere with the creation 
of a stable mother-pup bond have been suggested to be a risk factor for the 
development of stress-related psychopathologies later in life. The long-lasting 
effects of early experiences are mediated by changes in various cerebral 
circuits, such as the corticolimbic system, which processes aversive and 
rewarding stimuli. However, it is evident that the early environment is not 
sufficient per se to induce psychiatric disorders; interindividual (eg, 
sex-based) differences in the response to environmental challenges exist. To 
examine the sex-related effects that are induced by an early experience on later 
events in adulthood, we determine the enduring effects of repeated 
cross-fostering (RCF) in female and male C57BL/6J mice. To this end, we assessed 
the behavioral phenotype of RCF and control (male and female) mice in the 
saccharine preference test and cocaine-induced conditioned place preference to 
evaluate the response to natural and pharmacological stimuli and in the elevated 
plus maze test and forced swimming test to measure their anxiety- and 
depression-like behavior. We also evaluated FST-induced c-Fos immunoreactivity 
in various brain regions that are engaged in the response to acute stress 
exposure (FST). Notably, RCF has opposing effects on the adult response to these 
tests between sexes, directing male mice toward an "anhedonia-like" phenotype 
and increasing the sensitivity for rewarding stimuli in female mice.

Copyright © 2019 IBRO. Published by Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.neuroscience.2019.06.016
PMID: 31228589 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


331. Neurobiol Stress. 2019 May 14;11:100170. doi: 10.1016/j.ynstr.2019.100170. 
eCollection 2019 Nov.

Branched-chain amino acids mediate resilience to chronic social defeat stress by 
activating BDNF/TRKB signaling.

Nasrallah P(1), Haidar EA(2), Stephan JS(3), El Hayek L(2), Karnib N(2), 
Khalifeh M(2), Barmo N(2), Jabre V(2), Houbeika R(1), Ghanem A(1), Nasser J(1), 
Zeeni N(4), Bassil M(4), Sleiman SF(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Biology Program, Department of Natural Sciences, Lebanese American 
University, PO Box 36, Byblos, Lebanon.
(2)Molecular Biology Program, Department of Natural Sciences, Lebanese American 
University, PO Box 36, Byblos, Lebanon.
(3)School of Medicine, Lebanese American University, PO Box 36, Byblos, Lebanon.
(4)Nutrition Program, Department of Natural Sciences, Lebanese American 
University, PO Box 36, Byblos, Lebanon.

How individuals respond to chronic stress varies. Susceptible individuals 
ultimately develop depression; whereas resilient individuals live normally. In 
this study, our objective was to examine the effect of branched-chain amino 
acids (BCAA), commonly used by athletes, on susceptibility to stress. Male 
C57BL/6 mice were subjected to daily defeat sessions by a CD1 aggressor, for 10 
days. On day11, the behavior of mice was assessed using the social interaction 
test, elevated plus maze and open field. Mice received the BCAA leucine, 
isoleucine or valine before each defeat session. Furthermore, we examined 
whether BCAA regulate brain derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) signaling by 
using a brain-permeable tropomyosin receptor kinase B (TRKB) inhibitor, ANA-12. 
We also tested the effect of voluntary exercise and high protein diets on 
susceptibility to stress. Mice exposed to chronic stress displayed increased 
susceptibility and social avoidance. BCAA promoted resilience to chronic stress, 
rescued social avoidance behaviors and increased hippocampal BDNF levels and 
TRKB activation. Inhibition of TRKB signaling abolished the ability of BCAA to 
promote resilience to stress and to rescue social avoidance. Interestingly, we 
found that BCAA activate the exercise-regulated PGC1a/FNDC5 pathway known to 
induce hippocampal BDNF signaling. Although both voluntary exercise and BCAA 
promoted resilience to stress, combining them did not yield synergistic effects 
confirming that they affect similar pathways. We also discovered that high 
protein diets mimic the effect of BCAA by rescuing social deficits induced by 
chronic stress and increase Bdnf expression in the hippocampus. Our data 
indicate that BCAA, exercise and high protein diets rescue susceptibility to 
stress by activating the hippocampal BDNF/TRKB signaling.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ynstr.2019.100170
PMCID: PMC6526306
PMID: 31193350


332. Naunyn Schmiedebergs Arch Pharmacol. 2019 Oct;392(10):1265-1275. doi: 
10.1007/s00210-019-01667-6. Epub 2019 Jun 11.

Lacidipine attenuates reserpine-induced depression-like behavior and 
oxido-nitrosative stress in mice.

Khurana K(1)(2), Bansal N(3).

Author information:
(1)I. K. Gujral Punjab Technical University, Kapurthala, Punjab, 144603, India.
(2)Department of Pharmacology, ASBASJSM College of Pharmacy, Bela (Ropar), 
Punjab, 140111, India.
(3)Department of Pharmacology, ASBASJSM College of Pharmacy, Bela (Ropar), 
Punjab, 140111, India. nitindsp@rediffmail.com.

Depression is a serious medical illness displaying high lifetime prevalence, 
early-age onset that adversely affects socio-economic status. The bidirectional 
association between oxidative stress and calcium-signaling adversely affects the 
monoaminergic neuron functions that instigate the pathogenesis of depression. 
The present study investigates the effect of lacidipine (LCD), L-type 
Ca2+-channel blocker, on reserpine-induced depression in mice. Separate groups 
of mice (Swiss albino, 18-25 g) were administered lacidipine (0.3, 1 and 
3 mg/kg, i.p.) daily for 14 days and reserpine (5 mg/kg, i.p.) was injected on 
day 14. Rectal temperature, catalepsy, and tail-suspension test (TST) were 
performed 18 h and ptosis scores at 60, 120, 240, 360 min post-reserpine 
treatment. Whole-brain TBARS, GSH, nitrite, and superoxide dismutase (SOD) and 
catalase activities were estimated. Reserpine elevated the catalepsy, ptosis, 
hypothermia, and immobility period in TST owing to the marked increase in 
oxidative-nitrosative stress in the brain of mice. LCD attenuated the reserpine 
triggered the rise in catalepsy, ptosis scores, hypothermia, and immobility 
period in mice. LCD pretreatment attenuated the increase in TBARS and nitrite 
levels, and the decline of GSH, SOD, and catalase activities in the brain of 
reserpine injected mice. Bay-K8644 (0.5 mg/kg, i.p.), Ca2+-channel agonist, 
attenuated these effects of LCD (3 mg/kg) in reserpine-treated mice. It can be 
inferred that lacidipine (Ca2+ channel antagonist) attenuates depression-like 
symptoms in reserpine-treated mice. Furthermore, the abrogation of 
antidepressant-like effects of LCD by Bay-K8644 revealed that modulation of 
Ca2+-channels might present a potential strategy in the management of 
depression.

DOI: 10.1007/s00210-019-01667-6
PMID: 31187187 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


333. J Vis Exp. 2019 May 15;(147). doi: 10.3791/59546.

A Chronic Immobilization Stress Protocol for Inducing Depression-Like Behavior 
in Mice.

Son H(1), Yang JH(2), Kim HJ(3), Lee DK(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Anatomy and Convergence Medical Sciences, Institute of Health 
Sciences, Bio Anti-aging Medical Research Center, Gyeongsang National University 
Medical School.
(2)Department of Biological Sciences, Pusan National University.
(3)Department of Anatomy and Convergence Medical Sciences, Institute of Health 
Sciences, Bio Anti-aging Medical Research Center, Gyeongsang National University 
Medical School; kimhj@gnu.ac.kr.
(4)Department of Physiology and Convergence Medical Sciences, Institute of 
Health Sciences, Gyeongsang National University Medical School; dklee@gnu.kr.

Depression is not yet fully understood, but various causative factors have been 
reported. Recently, the prevalence of depression has increased. However, 
therapeutic treatments for depression or research on depression is scarce. Thus, 
in the present paper, we propose a mouse model of depression induced by movement 
restriction. Chronic mild stress (CMS) is a well-known technique to induce 
depressive-like behavior. However, it necessitates a complex procedure 
consisting of a combination of various mild stresses. In contrast, chronic 
immobilization stress (CIS) is a readily accessible chronic stress model, 
modified from a restraint model that induces depressive behavior by restricting 
movement using a restrainer for a certain period. To evaluate the 
depressive-like behaviors, the sucrose preference test (SPT), the tail 
suspension test (TST), and the ELISA assay to measure stress marker 
corticosterone levels are combined in the present experiment. The described 
protocols illustrate the induction of CIS and evaluation of the changes in 
behavior and physiological factors for the validation of depression.

DOI: 10.3791/59546
PMID: 31157777 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


334. Front Pharmacol. 2019 May 9;10:472. doi: 10.3389/fphar.2019.00472.
eCollection  2019.

Lavender (Lavandula angustifolia Mill.) Essential Oil Alleviates Neuropathic 
Pain in Mice With Spared Nerve Injury.

Sanna MD(1), Les F(2)(3), Lopez V(2)(3), Galeotti N(1).

Author information:
(1)Section of Pharmacology, Department of Neuroscience, Psychology, Drug 
Research and Child Health (NEUROFARBA), University of Florence, Florence, Italy.
(2)Department of Pharmacy, Faculty of Health Sciences, Universidad San Jorge, 
Zaragoza, Spain.
(3)Instituto Agroalimentario de Aragón-IA2, CITA-Universidad de Zaragoza, 
Zaragoza, Spain.

Low treatment efficacy represents an important unmet need in neuropathic pain 
patients and there is an urgent need to develop a more effective 
pharmacotherapy. An increasing number of patients choose complementary medicine 
to relieve pain. Lavender essential oil (LEO) is approved by the European 
Medicines Agency as herbal medicine to relieve anxiety and stress. However, the 
capability of LEO to relieve other nervous system disorders such as neuropathic 
pain has never been established. Our work aimed to evaluate the antineuropathic 
properties of lavender on a spared nerve injury (SNI) model of neuropathic pain 
in mice. An acute oral administration of LEO (100 mg/kg) alleviated SNI-induced 
mechanical allodynia, evaluated in the von Frey test, with an intensity 
comparable to the reference drug pregabalin. Investigations into the mechanism 
of action showed that LEO markedly decreased the phosphorylation of ERK1, ERK2, 
and JNK1, and decreased the levels of iNOS in the spinal cord; involvement of 
the endocannabinoid system was also detected using in vitro inhibition of the 
FAAH and MALG enzymes as well as in vivo experiments with the CB1 antagonist. 
Conversely, no effect on P38 phosphorylation and NF-kB activation was detected. 
These antihyperalgesic effects appeared at the same dose able to induce 
antidepressant-like, anxiolytic-like, and anorexic effects. In addition, gavage 
with LEO did not significantly alter animals' gross behavior, motor 
coordination, or locomotor activity, nor impaired memory functions. Oral 
administration of LEO could represent a therapeutic approach in the management 
of neuropathic pain states.

DOI: 10.3389/fphar.2019.00472
PMCID: PMC6521744
PMID: 31143116


335. Neuropsychopharmacology. 2019 Oct;44(11):1876-1885. doi: 
10.1038/s41386-019-0422-8. Epub 2019 May 27.

Reduced nucleus accumbens enkephalins underlie vulnerability to social defeat 
stress.

Nam H(1), Chandra R(1), Francis TC(1)(2), Dias C(3)(4), Cheer JF(1), Lobo MK(5).

Author information:
(1)Department of Anatomy and Neurobiology, University of Maryland School of 
Medicine, Baltimore, MD, USA.
(2)Synaptic Plasticity Section, National Institute on Drug Abuse Intramural 
Research Program, Baltimore, MD, USA.
(3)Department of Neuroscience, ICAHN School of Medicine at Mount Sinai, New 
York, NY, USA.
(4)Division of Developmental Medicine, Boston Children's Hospital, Boston, MA, 
USA.
(5)Department of Anatomy and Neurobiology, University of Maryland School of 
Medicine, Baltimore, MD, USA. mklobo@som.umaryland.edu.

Enkephalins, endogenous ligands for delta opioid receptors (DORs), are highly 
enriched in the nucleus accumbens (NAc). They are implicated in depression but 
their role in the NAc, a critical brain region for motivated behavior, is not 
fully investigated. To provide insight into enkephalin function we used a 
chronic social defeat stress paradigm, where animals are either categorized as 
susceptible or resilient to stress based on their performance in a social 
interaction test. Compared to controls, susceptible animals showed reduced 
enkephalin levels in the NAc. Such decrease in enkephalin levels is not due to a 
change in mRNA of its precursor protein, proenkephalin, in susceptible mice but 
is consistent with increased mRNA levels of enkephalinases in the NAc of 
susceptible animals. Systemic administration of enkephalinase inhibitors or NAc 
infusion of the DOR agonist, SNC80, caused a resilient outcome to CSDS. Both 
treatments increased phosphorylation of ERK, which was downregulated by social 
defeat stress. To further validate these results, we also used Q175 knock-in 
mice, an animal model of Huntington's disease in which enkephalin levels are 
reduced in striatum and comorbidity with mood disorders is common. Consistent 
with data in wild-type mice, Q175 animals showed reduced enkephalin levels in 
the NAc and enhanced susceptibility to a social defeat stress. Overall, our data 
implicate that depression-like behavior induced by social defeat stress arises 
from disrupted DOR signaling resulting from lowered levels of enkephalins, which 
is partly mediated through elevated expression of enkephalinases.

DOI: 10.1038/s41386-019-0422-8
PMCID: PMC6784997
PMID: 31132785 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


336. Psychopharmacology (Berl). 2019 Sep;236(9):2823-2834. doi: 
10.1007/s00213-019-05257-5. Epub 2019 May 21.

Paeoniflorin attenuates impairment of spatial learning and hippocampal long-term 
potentiation in mice subjected to chronic unpredictable mild stress.

Liu SC(1)(2), Hu WY(1)(3)(4), Zhang WY(1), Yang L(1), Li Y(1), Xiao ZC(1)(3), 
Zhang M(5), He ZY(6)(7).

Author information:
(1)Yunnan Key Laboratory of Stem Cell and Regenerative Medicine, Institute of 
Molecular and Clinical Medicine, Kunming Medical University, Kunming, 650500, 
China.
(2)Department of Medical Oncology, The Third Affiliated Hospital of Kunming 
Medical University, Kunming, 650118, China.
(3)Department of Anatomy and Developmental Biology, Monash University, Clayton, 
Melbourne, 3800, Australia.
(4)School of Pharmaceutical Science & Yunnan Key Laboratory of Pharmacology for 
Natural Products, Kunming Medical University, Kunming, 650500, China.
(5)Yunnan Key Laboratory of Stem Cell and Regenerative Medicine, Institute of 
Molecular and Clinical Medicine, Kunming Medical University, Kunming, 650500, 
China. zhangming99@gmail.com.
(6)Yunnan Key Laboratory of Stem Cell and Regenerative Medicine, Institute of 
Molecular and Clinical Medicine, Kunming Medical University, Kunming, 650500, 
China. zhiyong.he2@monash.edu.
(7)Department of Anatomy and Developmental Biology, Monash University, Clayton, 
Melbourne, 3800, Australia. zhiyong.he2@monash.edu.

RATIONALE AND OBJECTIVE: Paeoniflorin has been reported to exhibit 
antidepressant-like effects in several animal model depression; and it also 
exerts a neuroprotective effect. In the present study, we investigated the 
effects of paeoniflorin administration on depression-like behaviors and 
cognitive abilities in mice subjected to chronic unpredictable mild stress 
(CUMS), an animal model associated with depressive disorders and cognitive 
deficits.
METHODS: We administered paeoniflorin (20 mg/kg), which is the main active 
constituent extracted from Paeonia lactiflora Pall. and exerts multiple 
pharmacological actions, to CUMS mice. Subsequently, animals were subjected to 
tests of depression-like behavior including the sucrose preference test, the 
forced swimming test and the tail suspension test. The Morris water maze (MWM) 
task was applied to evaluate learning and memory capacity. Hippocampal CA1 
long-term potentiation (LTP) was recorded. Dendritic spine density and the 
expression levels of brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) and postsynaptic 
density protein 95 (PSD95) in the hippocampus were also investigated.
RESULTS: The administration of paeoniflorin protected against CUMS-induced 
depression-like behavior. Paeoniflorin also improved the performance of CUMS 
mice in the MWM. The impairment of hippocampal CA1 LTP caused by CUMS was also 
reversed. Furthermore, paeoniflorin administration prevented decreases in 
dendritic spine density and in the expression of BDNF and PSD95 in the 
hippocampus of CUMS mice.
CONCLUSION: Our observations suggest that paeoniflorin is a potential 
antidepressant that protects against cognitive impairment in depression.

DOI: 10.1007/s00213-019-05257-5
PMID: 31115613 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


337. Sci Rep. 2019 May 20;9(1):7566. doi: 10.1038/s41598-019-44052-2.

A comprehensive metabolomics investigation of hippocampus, serum, and feces 
affected by chronic fluoxetine treatment using the chronic unpredictable mild 
stress mouse model of depression.

Zhao J(1)(2), Jung YH(1), Jin Y(1), Kang S(1), Jang CG(1), Lee J(3).

Author information:
(1)School of Pharmacy, Sungkyunkwan University, Suwon, 16419, Republic of Korea.
(2)Shenyang Pharmaceutical University, Shenyang, 110016, P.R. China.
(3)School of Pharmacy, Sungkyunkwan University, Suwon, 16419, Republic of Korea. 
jlee0610@skku.edu.

A metabolomic investigation of depression and chronic fluoxetine treatment was 
conducted using a chronic unpredictable mild stress model with C57BL/6N mice. 
Establishment of the depressive model was confirmed by body weight measurement 
and behavior tests including the forced swim test and the tail suspension test. 
Behavioral despair by depression was reversed by four week-treatment with 
fluoxetine. Hippocampus, serum, and feces samples collected from four groups 
(control + saline, control + fluoxetine, model + saline, and model + fluoxetine) 
were subjected to metabolomic profiling based on ultra-high performance liquid 
chromatography-quadrupole-time-of-flight mass spectrometry. Alterations in the 
metabolic patterns were evident in all sample types. The antidepressant effects 
of fluoxetine appeared to involve various metabolic pathways including energy 
metabolism, neurotransmitter synthesis, tryptophan metabolism, fatty acid 
metabolism, lipid metabolism, and bile acid metabolism. Predictive marker 
candidates of depression were identified, including β-citryl-L-glutamic acid 
(BCG) and docosahexaenoic acid (DHA) in serum and chenodeoxycholic acid and 
oleamide in feces. This study suggests that treatment effects of fluoxetine 
might be differentiated by altered levels of tyramine and BCG in serum, and that 
DHA is a potential serum marker for depression with positive association with 
hippocampal DHA. Collectively, our comprehensive study provides insights into 
the biochemical perturbations involved in depression and the antidepressant 
effects of fluoxetine.

DOI: 10.1038/s41598-019-44052-2
PMCID: PMC6527582
PMID: 31110199 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no competing interests.


338. J Trace Elem Med Biol. 2019 Jul;54:126-133. doi:
10.1016/j.jtemb.2019.04.014.  Epub 2019 Apr 24.

3-(4-Chlorophenylselanyl)-1-methyl-1H-indole promotes recovery of neuropathic 
pain and depressive-like behavior induced by partial constriction of the sciatic 
nerve in mice.

Birmann PT(1), Sousa FSS(2), Domingues M(1), Brüning CA(2), Vieira BM(3), 
Lenardão EJ(3), Savegnago L(4).

Author information:
(1)Technologic Development Center, Biotechnology Unit, Neurobiotechnology 
Research Group, Federal University of Pelotas, Pelotas, RS, Brazil.
(2)Center of Chemical, Pharmaceutical and Food Sciences, Neurobiotechnology 
Research Group, Federal University of Pelotas, Pelotas, RS, Brazil.
(3)Center of Chemical, Pharmaceutical and Food Sciences, Laboratory of Clean 
Organic Synthesis, Federal University of Pelotas, Pelotas, RS, Brazil.
(4)Technologic Development Center, Biotechnology Unit, Neurobiotechnology 
Research Group, Federal University of Pelotas, Pelotas, RS, Brazil; Center of 
Chemical, Pharmaceutical and Food Sciences, Laboratory of Clean Organic 
Synthesis, Federal University of Pelotas, Pelotas, RS, Brazil. Electronic 
address: luciellisavegnago@yahoo.com.br.

3-(4-Chlorophenylselanyl)-1-methyl-1H-indole (CMI) is an organoselenium compound 
that presents antioxidant activity, antinociceptive, anti-inflammatory and 
antidepressive-like effect in mice in previous studies conducted by our research 
group. In this study, we evaluate the anti-allodynic, anti-hyperalgesic and 
antidepressant-like effects of CMI on partial sciatic nerve ligation (PSNL) in 
male adult Swiss mice (25-35 g) as well as the involvement of oxidative stress 
in these effects. Mice underwent PSNL surgery and after 4 weeks they were 
treated with CMI (10 mg/kg, intragastric route [i.g.]) or vehicle. The treatment 
with CMI (10 mg/kg, i.g.) reversed the increased the percentage of response to 
Von-Frey Hair (VFH) stimulation, decreased the latency time to nociceptive 
response in the hot-plate test, increased immobility time in the forced swimming 
test (FST) and decreased groomings activity in the splash test, all induced by 
PSNL. Additionally, CMI also reversed increased the levels of reactive oxygen 
species (ROS) and lipid peroxidation in cortex and hippocampus and plasmatic 
levels of corticosterone in mice, induced by PSNL. Results demonstrate that CMI 
reversed behavioral and biochemical alterations in the dyad pain-depression 
induced by PSNL and possibly modulation of oxidative system.

Copyright © 2019. Published by Elsevier GmbH.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jtemb.2019.04.014
PMID: 31109602 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


339. Neurol Res. 2019 Aug;41(8):762-769. doi: 10.1080/01616412.2019.1615670. Epub
 2019 May 16.

Neuroinflammation caused by mental stress: the effect of chronic restraint 
stress and acute repeated social defeat stress in mice.

Zhu Y(1), Klomparens EA(2), Guo S(1), Geng X(1)(2)(3).

Author information:
(1)a China-America Institute of Neuroscience, Beijing Luhe Hospital, Capital 
Medical University , Beijing , China.
(2)b Department of Neurosurgery, Wayne State University School of Medicine , 
Detroit , USA.
(3)c Department of Neurology, Beijing Luhe Hospital, Capital Medical University 
, Beijing , China.

Objectives: Cerebrovascular disease (CVD) is the leading cause of permanent 
disability worldwide. Inflammation has been reported to play an important role 
in the progression of CVD. Neuropsychiatric disorders such as depression are 
associated with increased incidence of CVD epidemiologically, although the 
mechanisms underlying this association are not clear. In this study, we assessed 
the effect of the acute repeated social defeat stress (RSDS) and chronic 
restraint stress (CRS) on neuroinflammation in mice. Methods: A total of 40 
6-week-old male C57BL/6J mice were divided into RSDS, CRS, and corresponding 
control groups. In the RSDS group, male C57BL/6J mice were repeatedly subjected 
to bouts of social defeat by a larger CD-1 mouse for 10 min daily for 10 
consecutive days. In the CRS group, the mice were exposed to restraint stress 
for 6 h per day for 28 consecutive days. Depressive behavior was evaluated by 
conducting sucrose preference test over 24 h. Peripheral blood serum and brain 
tissues were collected for measurement of corticosterone (CORT), epinephrine 
(EPI), and inflammatory factors (TNF-α and IL-6) using ELISA or real-time PCR 24 
h after the sucrose preference test. Results: Both RSDS and CRS decreased the 
sucrose preference ratio. The acute stress increased serum CORT and EPI, while 
the chronic stress did not significantly influence them. Both stress models 
induced an inflammatory response in peripheral serum and the brain. Conclusions: 
RSDS and CRS are two effective models of depressive behavior, and both models 
cause neuroinflammation, which may be responsible for the increased risk of CVD 
seen in patients with depression.

DOI: 10.1080/01616412.2019.1615670
PMID: 31092145 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


340. Psychoneuroendocrinology. 2019 Sep;107:37-45. doi: 
10.1016/j.psyneuen.2019.04.021. Epub 2019 May 1.

Minocycline inhibits microglial activation and alleviates depressive-like 
behaviors in male adolescent mice subjected to maternal separation.

Han Y(1), Zhang L(1), Wang Q(2), Zhang D(3), Zhao Q(1), Zhang J(1), Xie L(1), 
Liu G(2), You Z(4).

Author information:
(1)School of Life Science and Technology, Center for Informational Biology, 
University of Electronic Science and Technology of China, Chengdu, 610054, 
China.
(2)Department of Histology and Embryology, College of Basic Medical Sciences, 
Southwest Medical University, Luzhou, 646000, China.
(3)Sichuan Provincial Key Laboratory for Human Disease Gene Study and Institute 
of Laboratory Medicine, Hospital of University of Electronic Science and 
Technology of China and Sichuan Provincial People's Hospital, Chengdu, 610072, 
China.
(4)School of Life Science and Technology, Center for Informational Biology, 
University of Electronic Science and Technology of China, Chengdu, 610054, 
China; Department of Histology and Embryology, College of Basic Medical 
Sciences, Southwest Medical University, Luzhou, 646000, China. Electronic 
address: youzili@uestc.edu.cn.

Exposure to early adversity increases vulnerability to psychiatric disorders in 
later life. Microglia-mediated inflammation has been linked to psychopathology, 
so such inflammation may be a target for treating depression. Using a model of 
depression involving adolescent male C57BL/6J mice subjected to maternal 
separation, we explored whether using minocycline to mitigate inflammation can 
alleviate depression-like behaviors. Between postnatal days 1 and 14, male mice 
were separated from their mothers for 3 h per day. Minocycline (20 mg/kg) was 
administered intraperitoneally once daily for 2 weeks starting one week after 
weaning. Then the male mice were subjected to a second stress for 2 weeks. 
Results from the sucrose preference test, forced swimming test, and open field 
test showed that maternal separation did not obviously alter behavior of the 
male mice, but it did increase the risk of depression-like behaviors following a 
second stress. This increased risk disappeared if minocycline was given 
preemptively before the second stress. Maternal separation and second stress 
up-regulated pro-inflammatory markers and down-regulated anti-inflammatory 
markers in the hippocampus, and they activated microglia and promoted 
pro-inflammatory transitions in microglia. All these effects were reversed by 
minocycline. These changes in inflammatory processes correlated with changes in 
neurogenesis and BDNF expression in the hippocampus. Our results in this mouse 
model suggest the potential of minocycline for treating psychiatric disorders 
induced by early adversity.

Copyright © 2019 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.psyneuen.2019.04.021
PMID: 31078757 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


341. J Basic Clin Physiol Pharmacol. 2019 Apr 24;30(3). doi:
10.1515/jbcpp-2018-0153.

Methanol stem bark extract of Adansonia digitata ameliorates chronic 
unpredictable mild stress-induced depression-like behavior: Involvement of the 
HPA axis, BDNF, and stress biomarkers pathways.

Shehu A(1), Magaji MG(2), Yau J(2), Ahmed A(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmacology and Therapeutics, Ahmadu Bello University, PMB 
1045, Zaria, Nigeria, Phone: + 234 803 6028298.
(2)Department of Pharmacology and Therapeutics, Ahmadu Bello University, Zaria, 
Nigeria.
(3)Department of Pharmacognosy and Drug Development, Ahmadu Bello University, 
Zaria, Nigeria.

Background Adansonia digitata L. (Malvaceae) is used locally in the management 
of depressive illnesses, and its antidepressant-like effect has been previously 
reported. The present study was aimed at determining the effect of the methanol 
extract of the stem bark of A. digitata (MEAD) on chronic unpredictable mild 
stress (CUMS) and the possible mechanism responsible for its antidepressant 
activity. Methods Acute toxicity of MEAD was determined using the OECD guideline 
420. The CUMS model was used to induce depression, and behavioral tests such as 
sucrose preference test (SPT), open field test (OFT), novel-object recognition 
test (NORT), and tail suspension test (TST) were carried out in mice. The 
concentrations of plasma cortisol and brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) 
protein in the brain were assessed using enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay kits. 
The levels of superoxide dismutase (SOD) and malondialdehyde (MDA) were assessed 
using colorimetric methods. Results The LD50 was established to be ≥5000 mg/kg. 
On CUMS-induced depression, MEAD significantly (p ≤ 0.05) and dose dependently 
reversed the weight loss, increased the line-crossing activity in OFT, increased 
sucrose consumption in SPT, decreased the duration of immobility in TST, and 
increased the novelty exploration time in NORT. The MEAD extract significantly 
(p ≤ 0.05) and dose dependently increased the levels of BDNF, decreased the 
levels of plasma cortisol, increased the levels of total SOD activity, and 
decreased the levels of plasma MDA. Conclusion Our findings show that MEAD 
ameliorates CUMS-induced depressive-like behavior and its effect is possibly 
mediated via the neuroendocrine, neurotrophic, and oxidative stress pathways.

DOI: 10.1515/jbcpp-2018-0153
PMID: 31017871 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


342. PLoS One. 2019 Apr 15;14(4):e0215554. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0215554. 
eCollection 2019.

Stress-sensitive antidepressant-like effects of ketamine in the mouse forced 
swim test.

Fitzgerald PJ(1), Yen JY(1), Watson BO(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychiatry, University of Michigan, Ann Arbor, Michigan, United 
States of America.

Major depression is a stress-linked disease with significant morbidity and the 
anesthetic drug ketamine is of growing interest in the treatment of depression, 
since in responsive individuals a single dose has rapid (within hours) 
antidepressant effects that can be sustained for over a week in some instances. 
This combination of fast action and a therapeutic effect that lasts far beyond 
the drug's half-life points to a unique mechanism of action. In this reverse 
translational study, we investigate the degree to which ketamine counteracts 
stress-related depression-like behavioral responses by determining whether it 
affects unstressed animals similarly to stressed mice. To test this, male 
C57BL/6J mice were given a single injection of vehicle (0.9% saline; i.p.), 10 
mg/kg ketamine, or 30 mg/kg ketamine, and were tested in the forced swim test 
(FST) 24 hours and 7 days later, as well as in the open field test on the eighth 
day. Unstressed mice had normal group housing, environmental enrichment, and 
experimenter pre-handling (5 days), whereas stressed animals were subjected to 
chronic mild stress (single housing, reduced enrichment and minimal handling), 
where some mice also had daily two-week unpredictable chronic stress (UCS). We 
find that ketamine (24 hours post-injection) decreases immobility and increases 
mobile (swimming) behavior (antidepressant-like effects) in UCS animals but does 
the opposite in unstressed mice, similar to recent human findings. In summary, 
these data suggest that chronic psychological stress interacts with ketamine 
treatment to modulate its effects in the C57BL/6J mouse FST, which reinforces 
the relevance of this test, and this strain of mice, to human, stress-induced 
depression.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0215554
PMCID: PMC6464213
PMID: 30986274 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors have declared that no competing 
interests exist.


343. J Pharmacol Exp Ther. 2019 Jul;370(1):1-8. doi: 10.1124/jpet.119.256354.
Epub  2019 Apr 11.

Impact of Pharmacological Manipulation of the κ-Opioid Receptor System on 
Self-grooming and Anhedonic-like Behaviors in Male Mice.

Butelman ER(1), McElroy BD(2), Prisinzano TE(2), Kreek MJ(2).

Author information:
(1)Laboratory on the Biology of Addictive Diseases, the Rockefeller University, 
New York, New York (E.R.B., B.D.M., M.J.K.), and Department of Medicinal 
Chemistry, School of Pharmacy, University of Kansas, Lawrence, Kansas (T.E.P.) 
butelme@rockefeller.edu.
(2)Laboratory on the Biology of Addictive Diseases, the Rockefeller University, 
New York, New York (E.R.B., B.D.M., M.J.K.), and Department of Medicinal 
Chemistry, School of Pharmacy, University of Kansas, Lawrence, Kansas (T.E.P.).

The kappa (κ) opioid receptor/dynorphin system modulates depression-like states 
and anhedonia, as well adaptations to stress and exposure to drugs of abuse. 
Several relatively short-acting small molecule κ-receptor antagonists have been 
synthesized, and their behavioral profile has been examined under some 
conditions. The hypothesis of this study is that pharmacological manipulations 
of the κ-receptor system will result in changes in ethologically relevant 
anhedonic-like behaviors in mice. Adult male C57BL/6j mice (n = 6-8) were 
examined for self-grooming behavior in the splash test (in which robust 
self-grooming is elicited by spraying the dorsum of the mouse with a sucrose 
solution). The κ-agonist salvinorin A (0.56-1.8 mg/kg) produced dose-dependent 
decreases in self-grooming, a marker of anhedonia. The selectivity, potency, and 
duration of action of two relatively short-acting κ-antagonists, LY2444296 
[(S)-3-fluoro-4-(4-((2-(3-fluorophenyl) 
pyrrolidin-1-yl)methyl)phenoxy)benzamide] and LY2795050 
[3-chloro-4-(4-(((2S)-2-pyridin-3-ylpyrrolidin-1-yl)methyl) phenoxy)benzamide], 
were studied for their effectiveness in preventing grooming deficits caused by 
salvinorin A (1.8 mg/kg). κ-selective doses of both LY2444296 (0.032-1 mg/kg) 
and LY2795050 (0.032-0.32 mg/kg) dose- and time-dependently prevented the 
grooming deficits caused by salvinorin A (1.8 m/kg). We also found that a 
κ-selective dose of each of these antagonists decreased immobility in the forced 
swim test, a common test of anti-anhedonia effects. This study shows that the 
κ-receptor system is involved in an ethologically relevant measure of anhedonia, 
and that κ-selective doses of these antagonists can produce effects consistent 
with rapid anti-anhedonia. SIGNIFICANCE STATEMENT: Activation of the κ-opioid 
receptor system results in grooming deficits in mice, an ethologically relevant 
marker of anhedonia. Shorter acting κ-antagonists are able to cause effects 
consistent with rapid antianhedonia.

Copyright © 2019 by The American Society for Pharmacology and Experimental 
Therapeutics.

DOI: 10.1124/jpet.119.256354
PMCID: PMC6538891
PMID: 30975792 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


344. Exp Ther Med. 2019 Apr;17(4):3061-3064. doi: 10.3892/etm.2019.7311. Epub
2019  Feb 26.

Therapeutic effect of resveratrol on mice with depression.

Gu Z(1), Chu L(1), Han Y(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmacy, The Second Affiliated Hospital of Xinxiang Medical 
University, Xinxiang, Henan 453002, P.R. China.

The effect and mechanism of resveratrol on depression-like behavior in mice with 
depression were investigated. A mouse model of depression was established by 
social isolation combined with chronic unpredictable stress. The mice were 
randomly divided into the control group, the model group, the low dose group, 
the medium dose group and the high dose group. The rats in the low, medium and 
high dose groups were intraperitoneally injected with resveratrol 10, 20 and 30 
mg/kg, respectively. The control and model groups were intraperitoneally 
injected with an equal volume of normal saline. After 21 days of continuous 
treatment, the neurobehavioral changes of each group were analyzed by forced 
swimming test, tail suspension experiment and sucrose consumption experiment. 
Dopamine (DA) and serotoni (5-HT) and the level of brain-derived nerve growth 
factor (BDNF) in the prefrontal cortex of each group were analyzed by ELISA. The 
level of neuropeptide (NPY) expression was analyzed by western blot analysis. 
Compared with the model group, the immobility time of the tail suspension 
experiment and forced swimming experiment in the low, medium and high dose 
groups was significantly prolonged (P<0.05), while the 24 h sucrose consumption 
was significantly increased (P<0.05), showing a dose-dependent manner. Compared 
with the model group, the levels of DA and 5-HT in the prefrontal cortex of the 
low, medium and high dose groups were significantly increased, and showed a 
dose-dependent effect (P<0.05). Compared with the model group, the expression 
levels of NPY protein in the low, medium and high dose groups were significantly 
increased, and gradually increased with the increase of the dose, the difference 
was statistically significant (P<0.05). Resveratrol can significantly increase 
the levels of neurotransmitters DA and 5-HT in the prefrontal cortex and 
increase the expression of NPY in the brain, which can play an antagonistic role 
in depression.

DOI: 10.3892/etm.2019.7311
PMCID: PMC6434282
PMID: 30936978


345. Eur J Pharmacol. 2019 Jun 15;853:236-246. doi: 10.1016/j.ejphar.2019.03.035.
 Epub 2019 Mar 28.

The antidepressant effects of hesperidin on chronic unpredictable mild 
stress-induced mice.

Fu H(1), Liu L(2), Tong Y(3), Li Y(3), Zhang X(3), Gao X(3), Yong J(3), Zhao 
J(3), Xiao D(3), Wen K(3), Wang H(4).

Author information:
(1)The First People's Hospital of Yinchuan, Ningxia Medical University, Ningxia, 
750004, China; College of Pharmacy, Ningxia Medical University, Ningxia, 750004, 
China.
(2)Guangdong Key Laboratory for Research and Development of Natural Drugs, 
School of Pharmacy, Guangdong Medical University, Dongguan, 523808, China.
(3)College of Pharmacy, Ningxia Medical University, Ningxia, 750004, China.
(4)The First People's Hospital of Yinchuan, Ningxia Medical University, Ningxia, 
750004, China; College of Pharmacy, Ningxia Medical University, Ningxia, 750004, 
China; Ningxia Research Center of Modern Hui Medicine Engineering and 
Technology, Ningxia Medical University, Yinchuan, 750004, China; Key Laboratory 
of Hui Ethnic Medicine Modernization, Ministry of Education (Ningxia Medical 
University), Yinchuan, 750004, China. Electronic address: hqwangnx@tom.com.

Hesperidin, a kind of citrus bioflavonoid distributed in foods including 
grapefruits, oranges and lemons, has many pharmacological activities. This study 
was aimed to evaluate the anti-depressant-like effect of hesperidin on chronic 
unpredictable mild stress (CUMS)-induced mice. Depressive-like behavior was 
detected by the sucrose preference test (SPT), tail suspension test (TST) and 
forced swimming test (FST). A 
3-(4,5-dimethyl-2-thiazolyl)-2,5-diphenyl-2-H-tetrazolium bromide (MTT) assay 
was performed to assess the cell viability of corticosterone-induced PC12 cells. 
The serum, hippocampal and cell supernatant concentrations of interleukin 
(IL)-1β, IL-6 and tumor necrosis factor (TNF)-α were determined using 
enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) commercial kits. Furthermore, the 
protein expression levels of high-mobility group box 1 protein (HMGB1), receptor 
for advanced glycation end-products (RAGE)/NF-κB and brain-derived neurotrophic 
factor (BDNF)/tropomyosin-related kinase B (TrkB) pathway in the hippocampus and 
corticosterone-induced PC12 cells were detected by Western blot. Our results 
showed that hesperidin (100, 200 mg/kg) significantly relieved depressive-like 
behaviors, including decreased sucrose consumption in sucrose preference test 
(SPT), immobility in the forced swimming test (FST), tail suspension test, and 
locomotor activity in the open field test (OFT). Hesperidin reduced inflammatory 
cytokine levels by attenuating the HMGB1/RAGE/NF-κB signaling pathway and 
BDNF/TrkB pathway both in vivo and in vitro. In conclusion, hesperidin possessed 
efficient neuroprotective effects on depression, which was associated with 
neuroinflammation mediated by the HMGB1/RAGE/NF-κB and BDNF/TrkB pathways.

Copyright © 2019 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ejphar.2019.03.035
PMID: 30928632 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


346. Mol Biol Rep. 2019 Jun;46(3):2733-2748. doi: 10.1007/s11033-019-04717-7.
Epub  2019 Mar 26.

Identification of serum N-glycoproteins as a biological correlate underlying 
chronic stress response in mice.

Mahmoud ME(1), Rehan IF(2), El-Dawy Ahmed K(3), Abdelrahman A(4), Mohammadi 
S(5)(6), Abou-Elnaga AF(7), Youssef M(8), Diab HM(9), Salman D(10), Elnagar 
A(3), Mohammed HH(11), Shanab O(12), Ibrahim RM(13), Ahmed EKH(14), Hesham 
AE(15), Gupta A(16).

Author information:
(1)Department of Animal Behavior and Husbandry, Faculty of Veterinary Medicine, 
Sohag University, Sohag, 82524, Egypt. motamed71111@gmail.com.
(2)Department of Animal Behavior and Husbandry, Faculty of Veterinary Medicine, 
South Valley University, Qena, 83523, Egypt. ibrahim.rehan@vet.svu.edu.eg.
(3)Department of Biochemistry, Faculty of Veterinary Medicine, Zagazig 
University, El-Zeraa Street, 114, Zagazig, 44511, Egypt.
(4)Department of Physiology, Faculty of Medicine, Sohag University, Sohag, 
82524, Egypt.
(5)Department of Tissue Engineering and Applied Cell Sciences, University of 
Medical Sciences, Tehran, 1985711151, Iran.
(6)Biointerfaces Institute, McMaster University, 1280 Main St W, Hamilton, ON, 
L8S 0A3, Canada.
(7)Department of Husbandry and Development of Animal Wealth, Faculty of 
Veterinary Medicine, Mansoura University, Mansoura, 35516, Egypt.
(8)Department of Animal Physiology, Faculty of Veterinary Medicine, South Valley 
University, Qena, 83523, Egypt.
(9)Department of Animal Hygiene, Faculty of Veterinary Medicine, South Valley 
University, Qena, 83523, Egypt.
(10)Department of Animal Medicine, Faculty of Veterinary Medicine, Sohag 
University, Sohag, 82524, Egypt.
(11)Department of Veterinary Public Health, Faculty of Veterinary Medicine, 
Zagazig University, El-Zeraa Street, 114, Zagazig, 44511, Egypt.
(12)Department of Biochemistry, Faculty of Veterinary Medicine, South Valley 
University, Qena, 83523, Egypt.
(13)Clinical Laboratory Diagnosis, Department of Animal Medicine, Faculty of 
Veterinary Medicine, South Valley University, Qena, 83523, Egypt.
(14)Department of Animal Behavior and Husbandry, Faculty of Veterinary Medicine, 
South Valley University, Qena, 83523, Egypt.
(15)Genetics Department, Faculty of Agriculture, Assiut University, Assiut, 
71516, Egypt. hesham_egypt5@aun.edu.eg.
(16)Department of Zoology, Sri Avadh Raj Singh Smarak Degree College, Gonda, 
India.

Glycosylation is a post-translational protein modification in eukaryotes and 
plays an important role in controlling several diseases. N-glycan structure is 
emerging as a new paradigm for biomarker discovery of neuropsychiatric 
disorders. However, the relationship between N-glycosylation pattern and 
depression is not well elucidated to date. This study aimed to explore whether 
serum N-glycan structures are altered in depressive-like behavior using a stress 
based mouse model. We used two groups of BALB/c mice; (i) treated group exposed 
to chronic unpredictable mild stress (CUMS) as a model of depression, and (ii) 
control group. Behavioral tests in mice (e.g., sucrose preference test, forced 
swimming test, and fear conditioning test) were used to evaluate the threshold 
level to which mice displayed a depressive-like phenotype. Serum N-glycans were 
analyzed carefully using glycoblotting followed by Matrix-assisted laser 
desorption ionization-time of flight/mass spectrometry (MALDI-TOF/MS) to exhibit 
N-glycan expression levels and to illustrate the changes in the N-glycome 
profile. N-glycan expression levels were commonly altered in the depressive-like 
model and correlated well with the behavioral data. Our results indicated that 
sialylated N-glycan was identified as a biomarker associated with depressive 
symptoms, which may have utility as a candidate biomarker for the clinical 
diagnosis and monitoring of depression.

DOI: 10.1007/s11033-019-04717-7
PMID: 30915686 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


347. Pharmacol Biochem Behav. 2019 May;180:44-51. doi: 10.1016/j.pbb.2019.03.005.
 Epub 2019 Mar 20.

Reversal effect of Riparin IV in depression and anxiety caused by corticosterone 
chronic administration in mice.

Chaves RC(1), Mallmann ASV(1), Oliveira NF(1), Oliveira ICM(1), Capibaribe 
VCC(1), da Silva DMA(1), Lopes IS(1), Valentim JT(1), de Carvalho AMR(1), Macêdo 
DS(1), Vasconcelos SMM(1), Gutierrez SJC(2), Barbosa Filho JM(3), de Sousa 
FCF(4).

Author information:
(1)Drug Research and Development Center, Department of Physiology and 
Pharmacology, Faculty of Medicine, Federal University of Ceará, Fortaleza, 
Ceará, Brazil.
(2)Department of Biochemistry and Pharmacology, Faculty of Pharmacy, Federal 
University of Piauí, Teresina, Piauí, Brazil.
(3)Laboratory of Pharmaceutics Technology, Federal University of Paraíba, João 
Pessoa, Paraíba, Brazil.
(4)Drug Research and Development Center, Department of Physiology and 
Pharmacology, Faculty of Medicine, Federal University of Ceará, Fortaleza, 
Ceará, Brazil. Electronic address: clea@ufc.br.

Mental disorders have a multifactorial etiology and stress presents as one of 
the causal factors. In depression, it is suggested that high cortisol 
concentration contributes directly to the pathology of this disease. Based on 
that, the study aims to evaluate the potential antidepressant effect of Riparin 
IV (Rip IV) in mice submitted to chronic stress model by repeated corticosterone 
administration. Female Swiss mice were selected into four groups: control 
(Ctrl), corticosterone (Cort), Riparin IV (Cort + Rip IV) and fluvoxamine 
(Cort + Flu). Three groups were administrated subcutaneously (SC) with 
corticosterone (20 mg/kg) during twenty-one days, while the control group 
received only vehicle. After the fourteenth day, groups were administrated 
tested drugs: Riparin IV, fluvoxamine or distilled water, by gavage, 1 h after 
subcutaneous injections. After the final treatment, animals were exposed to 
behavioral models such as forced swimming test (FST), tail suspension test 
(TST), open field test (OFT), elevated plus maze (EPM) and sucrose preference 
test (SPT). The hippocampus was also removed for the determination of BDNF 
levels. Corticosterone treatment altered all parameters in behavioral tests, 
leading to a depressive- and anxious-like behavior. Riparin IV and fluvoxamine 
exhibit antidepressant effect in FST, TST and SPT. In EPM and OFT, treatment 
displayed anxiolytic effect without alteration of locomotor activity. 
Corticosterone administration decreased BDNF levels and Riparin IV could 
reestablish them, indicating that its antidepressant effect may be related to 
ability to ameliorate hippocampal neurogenesis. These findings suggest that 
Riparin IV improves the depressive and anxious symptoms after chronic stress and 
could be a new alternative treatment for patients with depression.

Copyright © 2019 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.pbb.2019.03.005
PMID: 30904544 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


348. Behav Brain Res. 2019 Jul 2;366:67-76. doi: 10.1016/j.bbr.2019.03.034. Epub
2019  Mar 19.

Stress-induced neural activation is altered during early withdrawal from chronic 
methamphetamine.

Jacobskind JS(1), Rosinger ZJ(1), Brooks ML(1), Zuloaga DG(2).

Author information:
(1)University at Albany, Department of Psychology, Albany, NY 12222, United 
States.
(2)University at Albany, Department of Psychology, Albany, NY 12222, United 
States. Electronic address: dzuloaga@albany.edu.

Chronic methamphetamine (MA) use can lead to increased symptoms of depression 
and anxiety during abstinence. Less is known about the specific brain regions 
that are altered following repeated MA that may be associated with these 
behavioral perturbations. Furthermore, MA has been reported to recruit and 
activate microglia in the brain, which may exacerbate stress-associated 
behavioral changes. In the present study, male and female mice were injected 
with MA (5 mg/kg) or saline once daily for 10 days, and during early withdrawal 
were assessed for alterations in immediate early gene (c-Fos) responses to a 
forced swim stressor. Chronic MA exposure increased floating and decreased swim 
time in the forced swim test in male and female mice tested 48 h after the final 
dose, indicating elevated depressive-like behavior. Furthermore, assessment of 
nest building, a measure of distress or despair-like behavior, revealed a 
sex-specific effect with only MA-treated females showing impairments. The c-Fos 
response to forced swim was attenuated by prior MA exposure in the central 
amygdala, CA3 hippocampal region, prefrontal cortex, and bed nucleus of the 
stria terminalis (BST). In the BST this attenuation occurred only in males. 
Neither the total number of microglia or activated microglia were altered by 
chronic MA exposure in regions examined. The primary findings indicate that 
chronic MA exposure attenuates activation of select stress-associated brain 
regions, a dysregulation that might contribute to alterations in mood-related 
behaviors.

Copyright © 2019 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.bbr.2019.03.034
PMID: 30902659 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


349. Molecules. 2019 Mar 20;24(6):1105. doi: 10.3390/molecules24061105.

The Antidepressant-like Effect of Flavonoids from Trigonella Foenum-Graecum 
Seeds in Chronic Restraint Stress Mice via Modulation of Monoamine Regulatory 
Pathways.

Wang J(1), Cheng C(2), Xin C(3), Wang Z(4).

Author information:
(1)Harbin Institute of Technology, 92 West Dazhi Street, Nangang District, 
Harbin 150001, China. wangjiancheng3612@126.com.
(2)Harbin Institute of Technology, 92 West Dazhi Street, Nangang District, 
Harbin 150001, China. ccuilin@hit.edu.cn.
(3)Harbin Institute of Technology, 92 West Dazhi Street, Nangang District, 
Harbin 150001, China. wjc2386026898@163.com.
(4)Harbin Institute of Technology, 92 West Dazhi Street, Nangang District, 
Harbin 150001, China. wzy219001@163.com.

Fenugreek (Trigonella Foenum-Graecum) seeds flavonoids (FSF) have diverse 
biological activities, while the antidepressant-like effect of FSF has been 
seldom explored. The aim of this study was to evaluate the antidepressant-like 
effect of FSF and to identify the potential molecular mechanisms. LC-MS/MS was 
used for the determination of FSF. Chronic restraint stress (CRS) was used to 
establish the animal model of depression. Observation of exploratory behavior in 
the forced swimming test (FST), tail suspension test (TST) and sucrose 
preference test (SPT) indicated the stress level. The serum corticosterone 
(CORT) level was measured. The monoamine neurotransmitters (5-HT, NE and DA) and 
their metabolites, as well as monoamine oxidase A (MAO-A) enzyme activity in the 
prefrontal cortex, hippocampus and striatum, were evaluated. The protein 
expression levels of KLF11, SIRT1, MAO-A were also determined by western blot 
analysis. The results showed that FSF treatment significantly reversed the 
CRS-induced behavioral abnormalities, including reduced sucrose preference and 
increased immobility time. FSF administration markedly restored CRS induced 
changes in concentrations of serum corticosterone, prefrontal cortex 
neurotransmitters (NE, 5-HT and DA), hippocampus neurotransmitters (NE, 5-HT and 
DA) and striatum neurotransmitters (NE). FSF treatment exhibited significant 
inhibition of MAO-A activity in the prefrontal cortex and hippocampus. FSF also 
significantly down-regulated the KLF11, SIRT1 and MAO-A protein expression 
levels in the prefrontal cortex and hippocampus. These findings indicate that 
FSF could exhibit an antidepressant-like effect by down-regulating the 
KLF11/SIRT1-MAO-A pathways, inhibiting MAO-A expression and activity, as well as 
up-regulating monoamine neurotransmitters levels.

DOI: 10.3390/molecules24061105
PMCID: PMC6471463
PMID: 30897781 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


350. Behav Brain Res. 2019 Jul 2;366:96-107. doi: 10.1016/j.bbr.2019.03.021. Epub
 2019 Mar 12.

Effects of a selanylimidazopyridine on the acute restraint stress-induced 
depressive- and anxiety-like behaviors and biological changes in mice.

Domingues M(1), Casaril AM(1), Birmann PT(1), Bampi SR(1), Lourenço DA(1), 
Vieira BM(2), Dapper LH(2), Lenardão EJ(2), Sonego M(3), Collares T(3), Seixas 
FK(3), Brüning CA(4), Savegnago L(5).

Author information:
(1)Technologic Development Center, Biotechnology Unit, Neurobiotechnology 
Research Group, Federal University of Pelotas, Pelotas, RS, Brazil.
(2)Center of Chemical, Pharmaceutical and Food Sciences, Laboratory of Clean 
Organic Synthesis, Federal University of Pelotas, Pelotas, RS, Brazil.
(3)Technologic Development Center, Biotechnology Unit, Molecular and Cellular 
Oncology Group, Federal University of Pelotas, Pelotas, RS, Brazil.
(4)Center of Chemical, Pharmaceutical and Food Sciences, Neurobiotechnology 
Research Group, Federal University of Pelotas, Pelotas, RS, Brazil. Electronic 
address: cabruning@yahoo.com.br.
(5)Technologic Development Center, Biotechnology Unit, Neurobiotechnology 
Research Group, Federal University of Pelotas, Pelotas, RS, Brazil. Electronic 
address: luciellisavegnago@yahoo.com.br.

In the last decades, selenium-containing compounds have received increasing 
attention due to their various biological and pharmacological properties. In the 
present study, we investigated the effects of 3-[(4-methoxyphenyl) 
selanyl]-2-phenylimidazo[1,2-a] pyridine (MPI; 1, 10 or 50 mg/kg, i.g.) on the 
acute restraint stress (ARS)-induced depressive- and anxiety-like behaviors in 
mice and its underlying mechanism of action. We used the open filed test, forced 
swimming test, and splash test to evaluate depressive-like behavior, and marble 
burying and elevated plus maze test to measure anxiety-like behavior. We found 
that MPI attenuated ARS-induced depressive- and anxiety-like behaviors in all 
behavioral tests, without having an effect in non-stressed mice. MPI prevented 
the increased in pro-inflammatory cytokines, indoleamine-2,3-dioxygenase (IDO) 
and inducible nitric oxide synthase (iNOS) expression in brain structures via 
canonical nuclear factor kappa-light-chain-enhancer of activated B cells (NF-κB) 
down-regulation. Additionally, MPI prevented ARS-induced downregulation of 
brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF), increased reactive oxygen/nitrogen 
species generation and lipid peroxidation in prefrontal cortex and hippocampus 
of mice. In addition, MPI blocked the downregulation of glucocorticoid receptors 
in the prefrontal cortex and hippocampus and reduced the increased circulating 
level of corticosterone in stressed mice. These results suggested that MPI 
showed antidepressant- and anxiolytic-like properties and the effects might be 
associated with the biological changes in the prefrontal cortex and hippocampus.

Copyright © 2019 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.bbr.2019.03.021
PMID: 30877027 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


351. Prog Neuropsychopharmacol Biol Psychiatry. 2019 Jul 13;93:11-20. doi: 
10.1016/j.pnpbp.2019.02.013. Epub 2019 Mar 8.

Ghrelin exhibited antidepressant and anxiolytic effect via the p38-MAPK 
signaling pathway in hippocampus.

Han QQ(1), Huang HJ(2), Wang YL(2), Yang L(2), Pilot A(3), Zhu XC(2), Yu R(2), 
Wang J(2), Chen XR(2), Liu Q(4), Li B(5), Wu GC(2), Yu J(6).

Author information:
(1)Shanghai Key Laboratory of Molecular Imaging, Shanghai University of Medicine 
and Health Sciences, Shanghai 201318, China; Department of Integrative Medicine 
and Neurobiology, State Key Laboratory of Medical Neurobiology, School of Basic 
Medical Sciences, Institutes of Brain Science, Brain Science Collaborative 
Innovation Center, Shanghai Medical College, Fudan University, Shanghai 200032, 
China.
(2)Department of Integrative Medicine and Neurobiology, State Key Laboratory of 
Medical Neurobiology, School of Basic Medical Sciences, Institutes of Brain 
Science, Brain Science Collaborative Innovation Center, Shanghai Medical 
College, Fudan University, Shanghai 200032, China.
(3)Sino-Danish College, University of Chinese Academy of Sciences, Beijing 
100049, China.
(4)Department of Anatomy, Histology and Embryology, School of Basic Medical 
Sciences, Shanghai Medical College, Fudan University, Shanghai 200032, China; 
Key Laboratory of Medical Imaging Computing and Computer Assisted Intervention 
of Shanghai, Shanghai 200032, China.
(5)Center Laboratories, Jinshan Hospital of Fudan University, Shanghai 201508, 
China.
(6)Department of Integrative Medicine and Neurobiology, State Key Laboratory of 
Medical Neurobiology, School of Basic Medical Sciences, Institutes of Brain 
Science, Brain Science Collaborative Innovation Center, Shanghai Medical 
College, Fudan University, Shanghai 200032, China. Electronic address: 
yujin@shmu.edu.cn.

Ghrelin, a peptide derived from stomach, is an endogenous ligand for growth 
hormone secretagogue receptor (GHSR). So far, the exact role of ghrelin in 
depression and anxiety is still being debated. The p38 mitogen-activated protein 
kinase (p38-MAPK) is known to be activated in response to various stress 
stimuli. Thus, we hypothesize that ghrelin has an antidepressant effect, to 
which the p38-MAPK signaling pathway significantly contributes. To test this 
hypothesis, chronic social defeat stress (CSDS) was used as a model of 
depression. We employed the adeno-associated virus-mediated siRNA approach to 
down-regulate GHSR expression in the hippocampus of mice in vivo. Both ghrelin 
and the p38 inhibitor, SB203580, were administered to identify the effect of 
ghrelin on depressive-like behavior of stressed mice and to better assess the 
role of the p38-MAPK signaling pathway in this process. We found that CSDS 
activated the endogenous ghrelin-GHSR in hippocampal neurons, which possibly 
resulted in opposing the formation of depression- and anxiety-like behaviors in 
mice. Furthermore, the p38-MAPK signaling pathway had an important role in the 
antidepressant effect of ghrelin. Therefore, we conclude that ghrelin may reduce 
CSDS-induced depression- and anxiety-like behaviors via inhibiting the p38-MAPK 
signaling pathway in hippocampal neurons of mice.

Copyright © 2019. Published by Elsevier Inc.

DOI: 10.1016/j.pnpbp.2019.02.013
PMID: 30853341 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


352. Neurochem Res. 2019 May;44(5):1182-1191. doi: 10.1007/s11064-019-02761-0.
Epub  2019 Feb 28.

Coenzyme Q(10) Alleviated Behavioral Dysfunction and Bioenergetic Function in an 
Animal Model of Depression.

Andalib S(1)(2), Mashhadi-Mousapour M(1)(2), Bijani S(1)(2), Hosseini MJ(3)(4).

Author information:
(1)Zanjan Applied Pharmacology Research Center, Zanjan University of Medical 
sciences, Zanjan, Iran.
(2)Departments of Pharmacology and Toxicology, School of Pharmacy, Zanjan 
University of Medical Sciences, Zanjan, P. O. Box: 45139-56184, Iran.
(3)Zanjan Applied Pharmacology Research Center, Zanjan University of Medical 
sciences, Zanjan, Iran. jamal_hossini@yahoo.com.
(4)Departments of Pharmacology and Toxicology, School of Pharmacy, Zanjan 
University of Medical Sciences, Zanjan, P. O. Box: 45139-56184, Iran. 
jamal_hossini@yahoo.com.

Coenzyme Q10 (CoQ10) is a natural compound, is involved in the mitochondrial 
electron transfer chain (ETC) and plays an important pattern in adenosine 
triphosphate (ATP) production. Amelioration of ATP is related to abnormalities 
in cognitive function and psychiatric diseases. Previous studies have shown that 
depression is accompanied by the induction of inflammatory and oxidative stress 
pathways and amelioration of antioxidant status. In a recent study, we 
investigated the beneficial effects of CoQ10 on behavioral dysfunction and CoQ10 
level in the rat brain. Therefore, intracerebroventricular (ICV) infusion of a 
single dose of streptozotocin (STZ, 0.2 mg/mouse) was used in adult male mice to 
induce depression. The behavioral data revealed a significant difference between 
the depression and control groups regarding the forced swim test (FST) and 
splash test results at 24 h following STZ treatment. Also, the validated and 
accurate high-performance liquid chromatography (HPLC) technique showed 
decreased CoQ10 level in the brain samples of the STZ group, compared to the 
controls. Our findings revealed that behavioral abnormalities due to STZ target 
mitochondria and affect energy metabolism and hemostasis, resulting in the 
initiation of oxidative damage in the brain. Besides, 4-week administration of 
CoQ10 could reverse the depressive like behavior and bioenergetic effects of STZ 
in the treated groups.

DOI: 10.1007/s11064-019-02761-0
PMID: 30820817 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


353. Biochem Biophys Res Commun. 2019 Apr 2;511(2):440-446. doi: 
10.1016/j.bbrc.2019.02.078. Epub 2019 Feb 23.

MicroRNA-26a-2 maintains stress resiliency and antidepressant efficacy by 
targeting the serotonergic autoreceptor HTR1A.

Xie L(1), Chen J(2), Ding YM(3), Gui XW(3), Wu LX(3), Tian S(3), Wu W(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology, The Second Affiliated Hospital of Nanchang 
University, Nanchang, China. Electronic address: xl580122@163.com.
(2)Department of Neurology, The First Affiliated Hospital of Nanchang 
University, Nanchang, China.
(3)Department of Neurology, The Second Affiliated Hospital of Nanchang 
University, Nanchang, China.
(4)Department of Neurology, The Second Affiliated Hospital of Nanchang 
University, Nanchang, China. Electronic address: 13807038803@163.com.

The association between dysregulated serotonergic activity and major depressive 
disorder (MDD) is well known. However, the various mechanisms underlying 
serotonergic dysregulation in MDD remain unclear. Previous research on 
serotonergic (5-HT) neurons identified microRNA-26a (miR-26a) targeting of the 
serotonin autoreceptor, 5-HT receptor 1A (HTR1A). Reporter assays with the Htr1a 
5'UTR sequence were performed in vitro. Adult transgenic mouse models altering 
miR-26a-2 and Htr1a expression were used for chronic social defeat, 
antidepressant treatment, and in vivo lentiviral experiments. Mice were tested 
for anxiety-like behavior using the elevated plus-maze, dark-light transfer, and 
open-field tests, and for depression-like behavior using the forced-swim test. 
We confirmed that miR-26a-2 downregulates Htr1a expression in 5-HT neurons 
in vitro. miR-26a-2 levels were significantly upregulated in the mouse dorsal 
raphe nucleus (DRN) following antidepressant therapy. The transgenic murine 
model overexpressing miR-26a-2 in serotonergic neurons displayed improved 
behavioral resiliency to social defeat. These effects were abrogated by the 
addition of Htr1a overexpression. In contrast, the transgenic murine model with 
miR-26a-2 knockdown in serotonergic neurons displayed increased anxious behavior 
and weakened antidepressant response. These effects were rescued by silencing 
Htr1a expression. Our findings suggest that miR-26a-2 functions as an endogenous 
antidepressant by targeting HTR1A in serotonergic neurons.

Copyright © 2019 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.bbrc.2019.02.078
PMID: 30808545 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


354. Neurotoxicology. 2019 May;72:38-50. doi: 10.1016/j.neuro.2019.02.002. Epub
2019  Feb 8.

Matrine ameliorates anxiety and depression-like behaviour by targeting 
hyperammonemia-induced neuroinflammation and oxidative stress in CCl4 model of 
liver injury.

Khan A(1), Shal B(1), Naveed M(1), Shah FA(2), Atiq A(1), Khan NU(1), Kim YS(3), 
Khan S(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmacy, Faculty of Biological Sciences, Quaid-i-Azam 
University, Islamabad, 45320, Pakistan.
(2)Riphah Institute of Pharmaceutical Sciences (RIPS), Islamabad, Pakistan.
(3)College of Pharmacy, Seoul National University, Seoul, South Korea. 
Electronic address: kims@snu.ac.kr.
(4)Department of Pharmacy, Faculty of Biological Sciences, Quaid-i-Azam 
University, Islamabad, 45320, Pakistan. Electronic address: skhan@qau.edu.pk.

Acute or chronic liver injury is associated with hyperammonemia which induced 
neuroinflammation and oxidative stress in the brain. Neuroinflammation, 
oxidative stress, reduced neurogenesis, and apoptosis are critical factors for 
the development of anxiety and depression. The present study was aimed to 
evaluate the anxiolytic and antidepressant properties of matrine against acute 
liver injury in the rodent model. Acute liver injury in mice was induced by 
administration of the acute hepatotoxic dose of carbon tetrachloride (CCl4) 
(1 ml/kg, i.p.). Pretreatment of mice with matrine (50 mg/kg i.p.) remarkably 
ameliorated CCl4-induced anxiety and depression-like behavior as evident from 
the results of open field test (OFT), elevated plus maze test (EPM), light-dark 
box test (LDB), forced swimming test (FST), and tail suspension test (TST). 
Moreover, matrine significantly inhibited CCl4-induced neuroinflammation in mice 
by reducing pro-inflammatory cytokines such as interleukins (IL-1β, IL-6) and 
tumor necrosis factor-α (TNF-α) levels in the hippocampus (HC) and prefrontal 
cortex (PFC). CCl4-induced oxidative stress was reduced by matrine due to its 
potential to enhance the levels of reduced glutathione (GSH), catalase (CAT), 
glutathione-S-transferase (GST), and decreased the malondialdehyde (MDA), and 
nitrite level in the PFC and HC of mice brain. Matrine remarkably reduced the 
levels of corticosterone, ammonia, AST, ALT, and creatinine. Matrine 
pretreatment remarkably ameliorated CCl4-induced morphological liver injury. 
Acute pretreatment of matrine enhanced neurogenesis by increasing the number of 
GFAF (glial fibrillary acidic protein) positive astrocyte, BDNF (brain-derived 
neurotrophic factor), and VEGF (vascular endothelial growth factor) in the 
hippocampus of CCl4-treated mice. Pretreatment of matrine inhibited apoptosis 
and DNA damage in the hippocampus. The present data revealed that hyperammonemia 
produced due to liver injury induced oxidative stress, neuroinflammation, 
reduced neurogenesis and apoptosis in the hippocampus, thus, resulting in 
anxiety and depression. Taken together, the present results suggested that 
matrine has a significant antidepressant and anxiolytic effects through 
modulation of neuroinflammation, oxidative stress, reduced neurogenesis and 
apoptosis induced by CCl4 administration.

Copyright © 2019 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.neuro.2019.02.002
PMID: 30738807 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


355. Behav Brain Res. 2019 May 2;363:161-172. doi: 10.1016/j.bbr.2019.02.006.
Epub  2019 Feb 5.

PINK1 deficiency is associated with increased deficits of adult hippocampal 
neurogenesis and lowers the threshold for stress-induced depression in mice.

Agnihotri SK(1), Sun L(1), Yee BK(2), Shen R(1), Akundi RS(3), Zhi L(3), Duncan 
MJ(3), Cass WA(3), Büeler H(4).

Author information:
(1)School of Life Science and Technology, Harbin Institute of Technology, 150080 
Harbin, China.
(2)Department of Rehabilitation Sciences, The Hong Kong Polytechnic University, 
Hong Kong, China.
(3)Department of Neuroscience, University of Kentucky, Lexington KY 40536, USA.
(4)School of Life Science and Technology, Harbin Institute of Technology, 150080 
Harbin, China. Electronic address: hbueler@hit.edu.cn.

Parkinson's disease (PD) is characterized by motor impairments and several 
non-motor features, including frequent depression and anxiety. Stress-induced 
deficits of adult hippocampal neurogenesis (AHN) have been linked with abnormal 
affective behavior in animals. It has been speculated that AHN defects may 
contribute to affective symptoms in PD, but this hypothesis remains 
insufficiently tested in animal models. Mice that lack the PD-linked kinase 
PINK1 show impaired differentiation of adult-born neurons in the hippocampus. 
Here, we examined the relationship between AHN deficits and affective behavior 
in PINK1-/- mice under basal (no stress) conditions and after exposure to 
chronic stress. PINK1 loss and corticosterone negatively and jointly affected 
AHN, leading to lower numbers of neural stem cells and newborn neurons in the 
dentate gyrus of corticosterone-treated PINK1-/- mice. Despite increased basal 
AHN deficits, PINK1-deficient mice showed normal affective behavior. However, 
lack of PINK1 sensitized mice to corticosterone-induced behavioral despair in 
the tail suspension test at a dose where wildtype mice were unaffected. 
Moreover, after two weeks of chronic restraint stress male PINK1-/- mice 
displayed increased immobility in the forced swim test, and protein expression 
of the glucocorticoid receptor in the hippocampus was reduced. Thus, while 
impaired AHN as such is insufficient to cause affective dysfunction in this PD 
model, PINK1 deficiency may lower the threshold for chronic stress-induced 
depression in PD. Finally, PINK1-deficient mice displayed reduced basal 
voluntary wheel running but normal rotarod performance, a finding whose 
mechanisms remain to be determined.

Copyright © 2019 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.bbr.2019.02.006
PMID: 30735759 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


356. Oxid Med Cell Longev. 2018 Dec 30;2018:2413841. doi: 10.1155/2018/2413841. 
eCollection 2018.

Indoleamine 2,3-Dioxygenase-Dependent Neurotoxic Kynurenine Metabolism 
Contributes to Poststroke Depression Induced in Mice by Ischemic Stroke along 
with Spatial Restraint Stress.

Koo YS(1)(2)(3), Kim H(1)(2)(3), Park JH(1)(2)(3), Kim MJ(1)(2)(3), Shin 
YI(4)(5), Choi BT(1)(2)(3), Lee SY(2)(3), Shin HK(1)(2)(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Korean Medical Science, School of Korean Medicine, Pusan 
National University, Yangsan, Gyeongnam 50612, Republic of Korea.
(2)Korean Medical Science Research Center for Healthy-Aging, Pusan National 
University, Yangsan, Gyeongnam 50612, Republic of Korea.
(3)Graduate Training Program of Korean Medicine for Healthy-Aging, Pusan 
National University, Yangsan, Gyeongnam 50612, Republic of Korea.
(4)Department of Rehabilitation Medicine, School of Medicine, Pusan National 
University, Yangsan, Gyeongnam 50612, Republic of Korea.
(5)Research Institute for Convergence of Biomedical Science and Technology, 
Pusan National University Yangsan Hospital, Yangsan, Gyeongnam 50612, Republic 
of Korea.

AIM: Poststroke depression (PSD), which occurs in approximately one-third of 
stroke survivors, is clinically important because of its association with slow 
functional recovery and increased mortality. In addition, the underlying 
pathophysiological mechanisms are still poorly understood.
METHODS: We used a mouse model of PSD to examine the neurobiological mechanisms 
of PSD and the beneficial effects of aripiprazole, an atypical antipsychotic 
drug. PSD was induced in mice by combining middle cerebral artery occlusion 
(MCAO) with spatial restraint stress. The body weight, sucrose preference, and 
forced swim tests were performed at 5, 7, and 9 weeks and the Morris water maze 
test at 10 weeks after completing MCAO and spatial restraint stress.
RESULTS: Mice subjected to MCAO and spatial restraint stress showed significant 
depressive-like behavior in the sucrose preference test and forced swim test as 
well as cognitive impairment in the Morris water maze test. The PSD-like 
phenotype was accompanied by an indoleamine 2,3-dioxygenase 1 (IDO1) expression 
increase in the nucleus accumbens, hippocampus, and hypothalamus, but not in the 
striatum. Furthermore, the increased IDO1 levels were localized in Iba-1(+) 
cells but not in NeuN(+) or GFAP(+) cells, indicating that microglia-induced 
IDO1 expression was prominent in the PSD mouse brain. Moreover, 
3-hydroxyanthranilate 3,4-dioxygenase (HAAO), quinolinic acid (QUIN), and 
reactive oxygen species (ROS) were significantly increased in the nucleus 
accumbens, hippocampus, and hypothalamus of PSD mice. Importantly, a 2-week 
aripiprazole (1 mg/kg, per os) regimen, which was initiated 1 day after MCAO, 
ameliorated depressive-like behavior and impairment of cognitive functions in 
PSD mice that was accompanied by downregulation of IDO1, HAAO, QUIN, and ROS.
CONCLUSIONS: Our results suggest that the IDO1-dependent neurotoxic kynurenine 
metabolism induced by microglia functions in PSD pathogenesis. The beneficial 
effect of aripiprazole on depressive-like behavior and cognitive impairment may 
be mediated by inhibition of IDO1, HAAO, QUIN, and ROS.

DOI: 10.1155/2018/2413841
PMCID: PMC6332926
PMID: 30693061 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


357. Psychopharmacology (Berl). 2019 Jun;236(6):1829-1838. doi: 
10.1007/s00213-019-5166-y. Epub 2019 Jan 22.

Cannabinoid receptor 2 activation mitigates lipopolysaccharide-induced 
neuroinflammation and sickness behavior in mice.

Sahu P(1), Mudgal J(1), Arora D(1)(2), Kinra M(1), Mallik SB(1), Rao CM(1), Pai 
KSR(1), Nampoothiri M(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmacology, Manipal College of Pharmaceutical Sciences, 
Manipal Academy of Higher Education, Manipal, Karnataka, 576104, India.
(2)School of Pharmacy and Pharmacology, MHIQ, QUM Network, Griffith University, 
Gold Coast, Queensland, 4222, Australia.
(3)Department of Pharmacology, Manipal College of Pharmaceutical Sciences, 
Manipal Academy of Higher Education, Manipal, Karnataka, 576104, India. 
madhavan.ng@manipal.edu.

RATIONALE AND OBJECTIVES: Cannabinoid receptor 2 (CB2R) signaling in the brain 
is associated with the pathophysiology of depression. Sickness behavior, 
characterized by lessened mobility, social interaction, and depressive behavior, 
is linked with neuroinflammation, oxidative stress, and immune system. The 
present study was aimed at evaluating 1-phenylisatin (PI), a CB2R agonist, in 
sickness behavior.
METHODS: Influence of acute and 7-day activation of CB2R using PI in 
lipopolysaccharide (LPS)-induced sickness behavior was assessed in mice. An 
acute injection of LPS (1.5 mg/kg) produced a fully developed sickness behavior 
in animals within 1 h of administration. The behavioral paradigm was assessed by 
open field test, forced swim test, and tail suspension test. Further, tumor 
necrosis factor-α (TNF-α), antioxidant enzymes, and lipid peroxidation were 
measured in the brain to correlate neuroinflammation and oxidative stress with 
sickness behavior. Both treatments, PI (20 mg/kg) and imipramine (15 mg/kg), 
were administered orally (once for acute and once daily for 7-day protocols).
RESULTS: LPS elevated the brain TNF-α level, augmented oxidative stress, and 
induced the sickness behavior in mice. Acute and 7-day treatment of mice with PI 
significantly reduced the LPS-induced sickness behavior. In addition, PI 
inhibited the neuroinflammation evidenced by a reduction in brain TNF-α and 
oxidative stress.
CONCLUSION: Our data propose that acute and long-term activation of CB2R might 
prevent neuroinflammation and oxidative stress-associated sickness behavior.

DOI: 10.1007/s00213-019-5166-y
PMID: 30666359 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


358. J Vis Exp. 2019 Jan 7;(143). doi: 10.3791/58276.

Evaluating the Anti-depression Effect of Xiaoyaosan on Chronically-stressed 
Mice.

Yan ZY(1), Li XJ(2), Ding XF(1), Liu YY(1), Chen JX(3).

Author information:
(1)School of Traditional Chinese Medicine, Beijing University of Chinese 
Medicine.
(2)School of Traditional Chinese Medicine, Beijing University of Chinese 
Medicine; Formula-pattern Research Center, School of Traditional Chinese 
Medicine, Jinan University.
(3)School of Traditional Chinese Medicine, Beijing University of Chinese 
Medicine; Formula-pattern Research Center, School of Traditional Chinese 
Medicine, Jinan University; chenjiaxu@hotmail.com.

In addition to the standardized use of antidepressant medications and 
psychotherapy, the usage of traditional Chinese medicine has lead to an overall 
improvement of patients with major depressive disorder (MDD). Therefore, the 
purpose of this study was to establish the mouse depressive model, observe the 
behavior changes associated with chronic unpredictable mild stress (CUMS), and 
then evaluate the anti-depression effect of Xiaoyaosan. Mice were randomly 
divided into four groups: a control group, a model group, a treatment group with 
Xiaoyaosan, and a treatment group with fluoxetine. All mice were individually 
kept in cages, and depression was induced in the mice by exposing them to 
several designed manipulations of CUMS for 21 days, as described in the 
protocol. Mice in the control group and model group received 0.5 mL of distilled 
water, while mice in the treatment groups received either Xiaoyaosan (0.25 
g/kg/day) or fluoxetine (2.6 mg/kg/day). The drugs used in the study were given 
intragastrically daily during the entire three weeks. To estimate the 
depressive-like behaviors, a series of parameters including the coat state, body 
weight, open field test score, and sucrose preference test score were recorded. 
Data analysis showed that behaviors of model mice were significantly changed 
compared to behaviors of mice in the control group, which were improved by the 
treatment of Xiaoyaosan and fluoxetine. The current findings demonstrated the 
anti-depression effects of Xiaoyaosan on the behaviors of CUMS-induced mice and 
revealed that compounds from the Xiaoyaosan prescription may be worthwhile for 
treating depression, considering their beneficial effects on depressive-like 
behaviors.

DOI: 10.3791/58276
PMID: 30663637 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


359. J Food Drug Anal. 2019 Jan;27(1):221-230. doi: 10.1016/j.jfda.2018.08.001.
Epub  2018 Aug 24.

Antidepressant and anxiolytic effects of the proprietary Chinese medicine 
Shexiang Baoxin pill in mice with chronic unpredictable mild stress.

Zhou XD(1), Shi DD(1), Zhang ZJ(1).

Author information:
(1)School of Chinese Medicine, LKS Faculty of Medicine, The University of Hong 
Kong, Hong Kong, China.

Depression and anxiety often co-occur with cardiac diseases. The Shexiang Baoxin 
pill (SBP) is a proprietary Chinese medicine initially used to treat cardiac 
conditions. This study explored whether SBP has antidepressant and anxiolytic 
effects in addition to hormonal and psychotropic mechanisms. Mice underwent 6 
weeks of chronic unpredictable mild stress (CUMS) to induce depression- and 
anxiety-like behavior. During the 6-week experiment, mice received SBP at 
intragastric doses of 20.25 mg/kg or 40.5 mg/kg daily. Animals were then tested 
for depression in sucrose preference, forced-swimming, and tail suspension 
paradigms, and for anxiety in open field and elevated plus maze tests. Both SBP 
doses significantly reduced anhedonic behavior in the sucrose preference test; 
the high SBP dose also increased the number of entries into the central zone of 
the open field. SBP-treated mice had markedly lower blood levels of 
corticotrophin-releasing hormone (CRH) and adrenocorticotropic hormone (ACTH) 
than stressed mice treated with vehicle. Either low- or high-dose SBP reversed 
stress-induced reductions of norepinephrine (NE) and dopamine (DA) metabolites 
and the expression levels of brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF), nerve 
growth factor (NGF), and glial cell-derived neurotrophic factor (GDNF) in 
related brain regions. These results suggest that SBP could prevent and 
alleviate prolonged stress-induced anhedonia and anxiety in association with its 
suppression of the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis hyperactivity, 
modulation of brain monoamine neurotransmitter metabolism and neurotrophins. SBP 
may be particularly suitable for the management of depressive and anxiety 
disorders in patients with cardiac conditions.

Copyright © 2018. Published by Elsevier Taiwan LLC.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jfda.2018.08.001
PMCID: PMC9298624
PMID: 30648575 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Conflicts of interest The authors declare that 
they have no competing interests.


360. Neural Plast. 2018 Dec 9;2018:8205245. doi: 10.1155/2018/8205245.
eCollection  2018.

Exposure to Patterned Auditory Stimuli during Acute Stress Prevents Despair-Like 
Behavior in Adult Mice That Were Previously Housed in an Enriched Environment in 
Combination with Auditory Stimuli.

Flores-Gutiérrez E(1), Cabrera-Muñoz EA(2), Vega-Rivera NM(3), Ortiz-López L(2), 
Ramírez-Rodríguez GB(2).

Author information:
(1)National Institute of Psychiatry "Ramón de la Fuente Muñiz", Division of 
Clinical Investigations, Calzada Mexico-Xochimilco No. 101, C.P. 14370 Mexico 
City, Mexico.
(2). National Institute of Psychiatry "Ramón de la Fuente Muñiz", Laboratory of 
Neurogenesis, Division of Clinical Investigations, Calzada Mexico-Xochimilco No. 
101, C.P. 14370 Mexico City, Mexico.
(3)National Institute of Psychiatry "Ramón de la Fuente Muñiz", Laboratory of 
Neuropsychopharmacology, Division of Neuroscience, Calzada Mexico-Xochimilco No. 
101, C.P. 14370 Mexico City, Mexico.

Several interventions have been shown to counteract the effects of stress that 
may be related to improved neuroplasticity and neuronal activation. In this 
sense, environmental enrichment (ENR) protects against acute stress and 
increases neuroplasticity. It has been suggested that the use of patterned 
auditory stimuli (PAS) may be beneficial in increasing the effectiveness of ENR 
on disorders related to stress, such as depression and anxiety. Examples of PAS 
are classical music compositions that have interesting effects at both clinical 
and preclinical levels. Thus, we analyzed the effects of the exposure to PAS, 
represented in this study by Mozart's compositions, during ENR housing for 35 
days in adult male Balb/C mice to evaluate depression-associated behavior using 
the forced-swim test (FST) paradigm with an additional short exposure to PAS. We 
found that the ENR mice that were exposed to PAS during both housing and 
behavioral task (ENR + PAS/FST + PAS) show decreased immobility and the number 
of despair episodes within a higher latency to show the first bout of 
immobility. Additionally, we found increased neuronal activation evaluated by 
the identification of activity-regulated cytoskeleton-associated protein- (Arc-) 
labeled cells in the prefrontal cortex (PFC) in mice exposed to PAS during 
housing and in the absence or presence of PAS during FST. Moreover, we found 
increased neuronal activation in the auditory cortex (AuCx) of mice exposed to 
PAS during FST. Our study suggests that the exposure to PAS during an emotional 
challenge decreases despair-like behavior in rodents that were previously housed 
in an enriched environment in combination with auditory stimuli. Thus, our data 
indicate that the role of the exposure to PAS as an intervention or in 
combination with positive environment to aid in treating neuropsychiatric 
disorders is worth pursuing.

DOI: 10.1155/2018/8205245
PMCID: PMC6304879
PMID: 30627149 [Indexed for MEDLINE]361. Psychopharmacology (Berl). 2019 Oct;236(10):2867-2880. doi: 
10.1007/s00213-018-5151-x. Epub 2019 Jan 4.

The selenium-containing compound 3-((4-chlorophenyl)selanyl)-1-methyl-1H-indole 
reverses depressive-like behavior induced by acute restraint stress in mice: 
modulation of oxido-nitrosative stress and inflammatory pathway.

Casaril AM(1)(2), Domingues M(1), Bampi SR(1), de Andrade Lourenço D(1), Padilha 
NB(3), Lenardão EJ(3), Sonego M(4), Seixas FK(4), Collares T(4), Nogueira CW(5), 
Dantzer R(2), Savegnago L(6).

Author information:
(1)Centro de Desenvolvimento Tecnológico, Unidade de Biotecnologia, Grupo de 
Pesquisa em Neurobiotecnologia, Universidade Federal de Pelotas, Pelotas, RS, 
96010-900, Brazil.
(2)Division of Internal Medicine, Department of Symptom Research, The University 
of Texas MD Anderson Cancer Center, Houston, TX, USA.
(3)Centro de Ciências Químicas, Farmacêuticas e de Alimentos, Laboratório de 
Síntese Orgânica Limpa, Universidade Federal de Pelotas, Pelotas, RS, Brazil.
(4)Centro de Desenvolvimento Tecnológico, Unidade de Biotecnologia, Grupo de 
Pesquisa em Oncologia Celular e Molecular, Laboratório de Genômica Funcional, 
Universidade Federal de Pelotas, Pelotas, RS, Brazil.
(5)Departamento de Bioquímica e Biologia Molecular, Centro de Ciências Naturais 
e Exatas, Laboratório de Síntese, Reatividade e Avaliação Farmacológica e 
Toxicológica de Organocalcogênios, Universidade Federal de Santa Maria, Santa 
Maria, RS, Brazil.
(6)Centro de Desenvolvimento Tecnológico, Unidade de Biotecnologia, Grupo de 
Pesquisa em Neurobiotecnologia, Universidade Federal de Pelotas, Pelotas, RS, 
96010-900, Brazil. luciellisavegnago@yahoo.com.br.

RATIONALE AND OBJECTIVES: Stress-induced alterations in oxidative and 
inflammatory parameters have been implicated in the pathophysiology of mood 
disorders. Based on the antioxidant and anti-inflammatory properties of the 
selenium-containing compound 3-((4-chlorophenyl)selanyl)-1-methyl-1H-indole 
(CMI), we assessed its ability to reverse depression-like behavioral 
alterations, neuroinflammation, and oxidative imbalance induced by acute 
restraint stress.
METHODS: Mice submitted to restraint for 240 min received CMI (1 or 10 mg/kg, 
orally) 10 min after the end of the stress induction. Behavioral and biochemical 
tests were carried out after further 30 min.
RESULTS: Restraint-induced depression-like behavior in the tail suspension test 
(TST), splash test, and new object exploration test was reversed by CMI. None of 
the treatments evoked locomotor alteration. In addition, CMI abrogated 
restraint-induced increases in plasma levels of corticosterone and in markers of 
oxidative stress and impaired superoxide dismutase and catalase activity in the 
prefrontal cortex (PFC) and hippocampus (HC). CMI also blocked stress-induced 
downregulation of mRNA levels of glucocorticoid receptor and brain-derived 
neurotrophic factor and upregulation of nuclear factor kappa B, inducible nitric 
oxide synthase, tumor necrosis alpha, indoelamine-2,3-dioxygenase, and glycogen 
synthase kinase 3 beta in PFC and HC.
CONCLUSIONS: These preclinical results indicate that administration of 
selenium-containing compounds might help to treat depression associated with 
inflammation and oxidative stress. Graphical abstract ᅟ.

DOI: 10.1007/s00213-018-5151-x
PMID: 30610349 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


362. Psychoneuroendocrinology. 2019 Apr;102:248-255. doi: 
10.1016/j.psyneuen.2018.12.010. Epub 2018 Dec 11.

Role of corticosterone in altered neurobehavioral responses to acute stress in a 
model of compromised hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal axis function.

Kinlein SA(1), Phillips DJ(1), Keller CR(1), Karatsoreos IN(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Integrative Physiology and Neuroscience, Washington State 
University, Pullman, WA, USA.
(2)Department of Integrative Physiology and Neuroscience, Washington State 
University, Pullman, WA, USA. Electronic address: Ilia.karatsoreos@wsu.edu.

An organism's capacity to cope with stressful experiences is dependent on its 
ability to appropriately engage central and peripheral systems, such as the 
hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis, to adapt to changing environmental 
demands. The HPA axis is a primary neuroendocrine mediator of neural and 
behavioral responses to stress, and dysfunction of this system is linked to 
increased risk for developing mental health disorders such as depression, 
anxiety, and post-traumatic stress disorder. However, the mechanisms by which 
dysregulated HPA function results in abnormal behavioral responses to stress are 
poorly understood. Here, we tested how corticosterone (CORT)-induced HPA axis 
disruption affects behavioral responses to stress in male C57BL/6 N mice, and 
probed correlates of these behaviors in the brain. We show that chronic HPA 
disruption blunts acute stress-induced grooming and rearing behaviors in the 
open field test, effects which were accompanied by decreased FOS 
immunoreactivity in the paraventricular nucleus of the hypothalamus (PVH) and 
paraventricular nucleus of the thalamus (PVT). Blockade of CORT secretion with 
metyrapone injection prior to acute stress did not recapitulate the effects of 
chronic HPA disruption on open field behavior, and acute CORT replacement did 
not rescue normal behavioral stress responses following chronic HPA disruption. 
This suggests that under acute conditions, CORT is not necessary for these 
responses normally, nor sufficient to rescue the deficits of chronic HPA 
dysregulation. Together, these findings support the hypothesis that chronic HPA 
dysregulation causes adaptation in stress-related brain circuits and demonstrate 
that these changes can influence an organism's behavioral response to stress 
exposure.

Copyright © 2018 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.psyneuen.2018.12.010
PMCID: PMC7649055
PMID: 30594817 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Conflicts of Interest The authors have no 
conflicts of interest to declare.


363. Neurosci Lett. 2019 Mar 23;696:168-173. doi: 10.1016/j.neulet.2018.12.033.
Epub  2018 Dec 23.

Effects of escitalopram and ibuprofen on a depression-like phenotype induced by 
chronic stress in rats.

Seo MK(1), Lee JG(2), Park SW(3).

Author information:
(1)Paik Institute for Clinical Research, Inje University, Busan, Republic of 
Korea.
(2)Paik Institute for Clinical Research, Inje University, Busan, Republic of 
Korea; Department of Health Science and Technology, Graduate School, Inje 
University, Busan, Republic of Korea; Department of Psychiatry, College of 
Medicine, Haeundae Paik Hospital, Inje University, Busan, Republic of Korea. 
Electronic address: iybihwc@naver.com.
(3)Paik Institute for Clinical Research, Inje University, Busan, Republic of 
Korea; Department of Health Science and Technology, Graduate School, Inje 
University, Busan, Republic of Korea; Department of Convergence Biomedical 
Science, College of Medicine, Inje University, Busan, Republic of Korea. 
Electronic address: swpark@inje.ac.kr.

Clinical and preclinical studies have reported that co-administration of 
nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) and antidepressant drugs are 
effective in patients with depression and in animal models of depression. 
However, several studies have suggested that NSAIDs inhibit the antidepressant 
effects of selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors in humans and mice. The 
present study investigated the effects of escitalopram (ESC) and ibuprofen 
(IBU), alone or in combination, on the stress-induced behavior and expression of 
brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) and p11, markers of depression and 
antidepressant action, in chronically stressed rats. Rats were subjected to 
chronic restraint stress (CRS) for 3 weeks and administered the following drugs: 
single administration of ESC or IBU or co-administration of ESC and IBU 
(ESC + IBU). Immobility time was measured by the forced swimming test (FST), and 
hippocampal BDNF and p11 levels were analyzed by quantitative real-time 
polymerase chain reaction and Western blotting. CRS increased immobility time on 
the FST. Administration of ESC, IBU, or ESC + IBU significantly attenuated the 
stress-induced increase in immobility time. CRS also significantly increased 
plasma corticosterone concentration by 169%. This effect was significantly 
recovered by administering ESC, IBU, or ESC + IBU. The levels of BDNF and p11 in 
the hippocampus decreased significantly in response to CRS. These decreases were 
prevented by administering ESC, IBU, or ESC + IBU. These findings suggest that 
both single and co-administration of ESC and IBU exerts antidepressant effects. 
These effects were associated with upregulation of BDNF and p11 expression.

Copyright © 2018 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.neulet.2018.12.033
PMID: 30586639 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


364. Biomed Pharmacother. 2019 Mar;111:209-223. doi:
10.1016/j.biopha.2018.12.047.  Epub 2018 Dec 22.

Effect of 25-methoxy hispidol A isolated from Poncirus trifoliate against 
bacteria-induced anxiety and depression by targeting neuroinflammation, 
oxidative stress and apoptosis in mice.

Shal B(1), Khan A(1), Naveed M(1), Ullah Khan N(1), Ihsan-Ul-Haq(1), D AlSharari 
S(2), Kim YS(3), Khan S(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmacy, Faculty of Biological Sciences, Quaid-i-Azam 
University, Islamabad, Pakistan.
(2)Department of Pharmacology and Toxicology, College of Pharmacy, King Saud 
University, Kingdom of Saudi Arabia, Saudi Arabia.
(3)College of Pharmacy, Seoul National University, Seoul, South Korea. 
Electronic address: kims@snu.ac.kr.
(4)Department of Pharmacy, Faculty of Biological Sciences, Quaid-i-Azam 
University, Islamabad, Pakistan; College of Pharmacy, Seoul National University, 
Seoul, South Korea. Electronic address: skhan@qau.edu.pk.

Neuroinflammation, oxidative stress and apoptosis are implicated in the 
pathogenesis of neuropsychiatric diseases like anxiety and depression. 
25-Methoxyhispidol A (25-MHA) is a triterpenoid isolated from the immature fruit 
of Poncirus trifoliate. Recently, its crude extracts have been shown to exhibit 
anti-bacterial and anti-inflammatory activities. The current study investigated 
the effect of 25-MHA (1, 5 and 10 mg/kg) against bacteria-induced anxiety and 
depression-like behaviors in mice. Mice were challenged intraperitoneally (i.p.) 
with LPS (0.83 mg/kg), S. aureus and E. coli after 30 min of 25-MHA treatment. 
25-MHA (10 mg/kg) significantly mitigated the anxiety-like behavior as indicated 
by the results of elevated plus maze test, open field test, and light-dark box 
test. It also demonstrated the anti-depressant like effect by significantly 
reducing the immobility time in tail suspension test and forced swim test. The 
oxidative stress was reduced by pretreatment with 25-MHA, improving the 
antioxidant enzymes level such as glutathione, glutathione sulfo-transferase, 
and catalase. Similarly, 25-MHA attenuated the bacterial infection induced 
neuroinflammation by inhibiting the interleukin- 6 (IL-6), interleukin-1 beta 
(IL-1β), and tumor necrosis factor-α (TNF-α) levels in prefrontal cortex and 
hippocampus regions. Pretreatment of 25-MHA also decreased the cortisol level 
and prevented changes in the thickness of the granular layer in the dentate 
gyrus. It also inhibited the DNA damage in hippocampus region as analyzed by 
comet assay. Hence, present results demonstrated that 25-MHA possesses 
anti-anxiety and anti-depressant activities due to the ability to reduce 
neuroinflammatory, oxidative stress and apoptosis induced by the administration 
of LPS, E. coli, and S. aureus.

Copyright © 2018 Elsevier Masson SAS. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.biopha.2018.12.047
PMID: 30583228 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


365. Biomed Pharmacother. 2019 Jan;109:938-944. doi:
10.1016/j.biopha.2018.10.144.  Epub 2018 Nov 5.

Involvement of opioid system in behavioral despair induced by social isolation 
stress in mice.

Haj-Mirzaian A(1), Nikbakhsh R(1), Ramezanzadeh K(1), Rezaee M(2), Amini-Khoei 
H(3), Haj-Mirzaian A(4), Ghesmati M(5), Afshari K(6), Haddadi NS(6), Dehpour 
AR(7).

Author information:
(1)Experimental Medicine Research Center, Tehran University of Medical Sciences, 
Tehran, Iran; Department of Pharmacology, School of Medicine, Tehran University 
of Medical Sciences, Tehran, Iran; Department of Pharmacology, School of 
Pharmacy, Shahid Beheshti University of Medical Sciences, Tehran, Iran.
(2)Department of Anesthesiology, Critical Care and Pain Medicine, Tehran 
University of Medical Science, Tehran, Iran.
(3)Medical Plants Research Center, Basic Health Sciences Institute, Shahrekord 
University of Medical Sciences, Shahrekord, Iran; Department of Physiology and 
Pharmacology, School of Medicine, Shahrekord University of Medical Sciences, 
Shahrekord, Iran.
(4)Experimental Medicine Research Center, Tehran University of Medical Sciences, 
Tehran, Iran; Russell H. Morgan Department of Radiology and Radiological 
Science, Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine, Baltimore, MD, USA.
(5)Department of Microbiology, Islamic Azad University of Lahijan Branch, 
Lahijan, Iran.
(6)Experimental Medicine Research Center, Tehran University of Medical Sciences, 
Tehran, Iran; Department of Pharmacology, School of Medicine, Tehran University 
of Medical Sciences, Tehran, Iran.
(7)Experimental Medicine Research Center, Tehran University of Medical Sciences, 
Tehran, Iran; Department of Pharmacology, School of Medicine, Tehran University 
of Medical Sciences, Tehran, Iran. Electronic address: dehpoura@sina.tums.ac.ir.

Social isolation stress (SIS) as a type of chronic stress could induce 
depressive- and anxiety-like behaviors. Our study evaluates the role of opioid 
system on negative behavioral impacts of SIS in male NMRI mice. We investigated 
effects of morphine, a nonselective opioid receptor (OR) agonist, naltrexone 
(NLX), an OR antagonist, naltrindole (NLT), a delta opioid receptor (DOR) 
antagonist, SNC80, a DOR agonist, U-69593, a kappa opioid receptor (KOR) 
agonist, nor-Binaltorphimine, a selective KOR antagonist and cyprodime 
hydrochloride a selective mu opioid receptor (MOR) antagonist on depressive- and 
anxiety-like behaviors. Using RT-PCR we evaluated ORs gene expression in mice 
brain. Our findings showed that SIS induced anxiety- and depressive-like 
behavior in the forced swimming test, open field test, splash test and 
hole-board test. Moreover, administration of SNC-80 significantly mitigated 
anxiety- and depressive-like behaviors. NLT decreased grooming-activity in the 
splash test. Excitingly, administration of agents affecting KOR failed to alter 
the negative effects of SIS. RT-PCR demonstrated that MOR and KOR gene 
expression decreased in socially isolated mice; however, SIS did not affect DORs 
expression. Our findings suggest that SIS at least in part, probably via 
altering endogenous opioids particularly MORs and KORs but not DORs mediated 
negative impacts on behavior; also, it could be concluded that DORs might be 
considered as a novel target for studying depression and anxiety.

Copyright © 2018 Elsevier Masson SAS. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.biopha.2018.10.144
PMID: 30551548 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


366. Exp Ther Med. 2018 Dec;16(6):5376-5383. doi: 10.3892/etm.2018.6876. Epub
2018  Oct 18.

Sustained antidepressant action of the N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor antagonist 
MK-801 in a chronic unpredictable mild stress model.

Yang BK(1), Qin J(2), Nie Y(3), Chen JC(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurosurgery, Zhongnan Hospital of Wuhan University, Wuhan, 
Hubei 430071, P.R. China.
(2)Department of Neurosurgery, Taihe Hospital, Hubei University of Medicine, 
Shiyan, Hubei 442600, P.R. China.
(3)Department of Children's Medical Center, Taihe Hospital, Hubei University of 
Medicine, Shiyan, Hubei 442600, P.R. China.

(5S,10R)-5-methyl-10,11-dihydro-5H-dibenzo(A,D)cyclohepten-5,10-imine hydrogen 
maleate (MK-801) is an N-methyl-D-aspartate non-competitive antagonist that 
possesses useful biological properties, including anticonvulsant and anesthetic 
activities. Studies have indicated the rapid antidepressant effects of MK-801 in 
animal models. However, there are no reports concerning a sustained 
antidepressant effect in the chronic unpredictable mild stress (CUMS) model. 
Furthermore, the antidepressant mechanism remains unclear. The aim of the 
present study was to examine the effects of MK-801 (0.1 mg/kg) and rapastinel 
(10 mg/kg) on depression-like behavior in CUMS mice and measure the protein 
expression of brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF), 
α-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazolepropionic acid receptor (GluA1) and 
phosphorylated mammalian target of rapamycin (p-mTOR). In the tail suspension 
and forced swim tests, MK-801 significantly attenuated the increased immobility 
time in CUMS mice compared with the vehicle group. In the sucrose preference 
test, a single-dose injection of MK-801 significantly ameliorated the decreased 
sucrose preference in CUMS mice compared with the vehicle group. Western blot 
analyses indicated that MK-801 significantly attenuated the decreased BDNF, 
GluA1 and p-mTOR protein levels in the medial prefrontal cortex (mPFC), dentate 
gyrus (DG) and CA3 of the hippocampi of CUMS mice. Conversely, this compound had 
no effect on increased BDNF, GluA1 and p-mTOR protein levels in the nucleus 
accumbens of CUMS mice. Therefore, the present study revealed the sustained 
antidepressant effects of MK-801 in the CUMS model. Furthermore, synaptogenesis 
and neuronal regeneration in the prelimbic regions of mPFC, DG and CA3 of the 
hippocampus may be implicated as mechanisms that promote a sustained 
antidepressant response.

DOI: 10.3892/etm.2018.6876
PMCID: PMC6257797
PMID: 30542498


367. Handb Exp Pharmacol. 2019;254:233-257. doi: 10.1007/164_2018_188.

NOP Ligands for the Treatment of Anxiety and Mood Disorders.

Gavioli EC(1), Holanda VAD(2), Ruzza C(3).

Author information:
(1)Behavioral Pharmacology Laboratory, Department of Biophysics and 
Pharmacology, Federal University of Rio Grande do Norte, Natal, Brazil. 
egavioli@hotmail.com.
(2)Behavioral Pharmacology Laboratory, Department of Biophysics and 
Pharmacology, Federal University of Rio Grande do Norte, Natal, Brazil.
(3)Department of Medical Sciences, Section of Pharmacology, and National 
Institute of Neuroscience, University of Ferrara, Ferrara, Italy.

Many studies point toward the nociceptin/orphanin FQ (N/OFQ) and the N/OFQ 
peptide receptor (NOP) as targets for the development of innovative drugs for 
treating anxiety- and mood-related disorders. Evidence supports the view that 
the activation of NOP receptors with agonists elicits anxiolytic-like effects, 
while its blockade with NOP antagonists promotes antidepressant-like actions in 
rodents. Genetic studies showed that NOP receptor knockout mice display an 
antidepressant-like phenotype, and NOP antagonists are inactive in these 
animals. In contrast, the genetic blockade of NOP receptor signaling generally 
displays an increase of anxiety states in the elevated plus-maze test. In this 
chapter we summarized the most relevant findings of NOP receptor ligands in the 
modulation of anxiety and mood disorders, and the putative mechanisms of action 
are discussed.

DOI: 10.1007/164_2018_188
PMID: 30535941 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


368. Pharmacology. 2019;103(1-2):93-100. doi: 10.1159/000494139. Epub 2018 Dec 5.

Tauroursodeoxycholic Acid Ameliorates Lipopolysaccharide-Induced Depression Like 
Behavior in Mice via the Inhibition of Neuroinflammation and Oxido-Nitrosative 
Stress.

Cheng L(1), Huang C(2), Chen Z(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmacy, The Seventh People's Hospital of Changzhou, 
Changzhou, China.
(2)Department of Pharmacology, School of Pharmacy, Nantong University, Nantong, 
China, asicampa@aliyun.com.
(3)Department of Invasive Technology, Nantong First People's Hospital, The 
Second Affiliated Hospital of Nantong University, Nantong, China.

Depression is a mental disease that causes severe economic and social burdens. 
The mechanism for the onset of depression remains largely unknown. Recently, 
more and more attention is being given to the role of neuroinflammation and 
oxidative stress in depression. Tauroursodeoxycholic acid (TUDCA), a clinically 
available agent used to treat cholesterol gallstone and protect neurons against 
neurodegeneration, has been reported to prevent neuroinflammation and oxidative 
stress. In this study, we investigated the effect of TUDCA on lipopolysaccharide 
(LPS)-induced depression-like behavior, neuroinflammation, and oxido-nitrosative 
stress in mice. Results showed that TUDCA pretreatment (once daily for 7 
consecutive days) at the dosage of 200 and 400 mg/kg, but not 100 mg/kg, 
markedly attenuated LPS (0.83 mg/kg)-induced behavioral abnormalities in the 
tail suspension test, forced swim test, and sucrose preference test. Further 
analysis showed that the TUDCA pretreatment (200, 400 mg/kg) not only inhibited 
the production of proinflammatory cytokines induced by LPS stimulation, such as 
interleukin-6 and tumor necrosis factor-α, but attenuated LPS-triggered 
oxido-nitrosative stress in the hippocampus and prefrontal cortex. Taken 
together, our results provide evidence to show that the TUDCA could be a 
potential antidepressant, and its antidepressive mechanism may be associated 
with the inhibition of the neuroinflammatory response and oxido-nitrosative 
stress in the brain.

© 2018 S. Karger AG, Basel.

DOI: 10.1159/000494139
PMID: 30517939 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


369. J Psychopharmacol. 2019 Jan;33(1):37-50. doi: 10.1177/0269881118812099. Epub
 2018 Nov 28.

Anemoside A3 rapidly reverses depression-like behaviors and weakening of 
excitatory synaptic transmission in mouse models of depression.

Wang CM(1), Lin ZH(1), Lin ZQ(1), Yao QY(2), Zhang YF(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmacy, Quanzhou First Hospital affiliated to Fujian Medical 
University, Quanzhou, China.
(2)Department of Neurology, Quanzhou First Hospital affiliated to Fujian Medical 
University, Quanzhou, China.

BACKGROUND AND AIM: Developing fast-acting antidepressants attracts considerable 
attention. Anemoside A3, a natural triterpenoid glycoside isolated from 
Pulsatillae Radix, has been reported to produce antidepressant-like action in 
the forced swim test. We herein explore the fast-onset antidepressant-like 
potentials and antidepressant mechanisms of anemoside A3.
METHODS: The forced swim test and tail suspension test were used to determine 
the acute antidepressant-like action of anemoside A3. This action of anemoside 
A3 was confirmed in chronic mild stress and chronic social defeat stress models. 
In vitro extracellular field potential recordings were conducted to investigate 
the impact of anemoside A3 on chronic stress-induced alterations at 
temporoammonic-CA1 synapses. Western blot, whole-cell patch-clamp recordings, 
and microinjections of α-amino-3-hydroxyl-5-methyl-4-isoxazole-propionate 
receptor antagonists into the stratum lacunosum-moleculare were performed to 
unravel the contribution of stratum lacunosum-moleculare 
α-amino-3-hydroxyl-5-methyl-4-isoxazole-propionate receptors to anemoside A3's 
antidepressant-like activity. In vivo microdialysis and pharmacological 
depletion of serotonin were implemented to examine the role of the serotonin 
system in the antidepressant-like effect of anemoside A3.
RESULTS: Anemoside A3 administered intraperitoneally displayed acute 
antidepressant-like effects in the mouse forced swim test and tail suspension 
test and anemoside A3 treatment (intraperitoneally) for five days was sufficient 
to reverse depression-related behaviors of mice subjected to chronic stress. 
Accordingly, chronic social defeat stress-induced weakening of 
α-amino-3-hydroxyl-5-methyl-4-isoxazole-propionate receptor-mediated 
neurotransmission in the temporoammonic-CA1 pathway and downregulation of 
synaptic GluA2-lacking α-amino-3-hydroxyl-5-methyl-4-isoxazole-propionate 
receptor expression in the stratum lacunosum-moleculare could both be normalized 
by five days of anemoside A3 treatment (intraperitoneally). Moreover, 
intra-stratum lacunosum-moleculare infusion of GluA2-lacking 
α-amino-3-hydroxyl-5-methyl-4-isoxazole-propionate receptor antagonist abolished 
anemoside A3's antidepressant-like effect. Lastly, serotonin system was not 
implicated in anemoside A3's antidepressant-like effect.
CONCLUSIONS: Our results suggest that anemoside A3 induces a rapid 
antidepressant-like response by a stratum lacunosum-moleculare GluA2-lacking 
α-amino-3-hydroxyl-5-methyl-4-isoxazole-propionate receptor-dependent mechanism. 
In view of this, anemoside A3 represents a promising agent for depression 
treatment.

DOI: 10.1177/0269881118812099
PMID: 30484361 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


370. Neuropsychopharmacol Rep. 2019 Mar;39(1):56-60. doi: 10.1002/npr2.12041.
Epub  2018 Nov 24.

Comprehensive behavioral analysis and quantification of brain free amino acids 
of C57BL/6J congenic mice carrying the 1473G allele in tryptophan hydroxylase-2.

Koshimizu H(1), Hirata N(1), Takao K(2), Toyama K(1), Ichinose T(3), Furuya 
S(3), Miyakawa T(1).

Author information:
(1)Division of Systems Medical Science, Institute for Comprehensive Medical 
Science, Fujita Health University, Toyoake, Japan.
(2)Life Science Research Center, University of Toyama, Toyama, Japan.
(3)Department of Bioscience and Biotechnology, Graduate School of Bioresource 
and Bioenvironmental Sciences, Kyushu University, Fukuoka, Japan.

AIM: Tryptophan hydroxylase 2 (Tph2) is a rate-limiting enzyme for the 
biosynthesis of 5-hydroxytryptamine (5-HT, serotonin). Previous studies have 
reported that C1473G polymorphism of the murine Tph2 gene leads to decreased 
5-HT levels in the brain and abnormal behavioral phenotypes, such as impaired 
anxiety- and depression-like behaviors. In this study, to confirm the effect of 
the C1473G polymorphism on mouse phenotypes, we conducted a comprehensive 
battery of behavioral tests and measured the amounts of brain free amino acids 
involved in the production of 5-HT.
METHODS: We obtained C57BL/6J congenic mice that were homozygous for the 1473G 
allele of Tph2 (1473G) and subjected them and their wild-type littermates 
(1473C) to a battery of behavioral tests. Using reverse-phase high-performance 
liquid chromatography (HPLC), we measured the amounts of free amino acids in the 
5-HT and epinephrine synthetic/metabolic pathways in the frontal cortex, 
hippocampus, striatum, and midbrain.
RESULTS: We failed to detect significant differences between genotypes in 
depression-like behaviors, anxiety-like behaviors, social behaviors, 
sensorimotor gaiting, or learning and memory, while 1473G mice exhibited a 
nominally significant impairment in gait analysis, which failed to reach 
study-wide significance. In the HPLC analysis, there were no significant 
differences in the amounts of 5-HT, dopamine, norepinephrine, and epinephrine in 
the frontal cortex, hippocampus, striatum, and midbrain.
CONCLUSION: Our findings do not support the idea that congenic C57BL/6J mice 
carrying the 1473G allele may represent an animal model of mood disorder under 
normal conditions without stress.

© 2018 The Authors. Neuropsychopharmacology Reports published by John Wiley & 
Sons Australia, Ltd on behalf of The Japanese Society of 
Neuropsychopharmacology.

DOI: 10.1002/npr2.12041
PMCID: PMC7292325
PMID: 30472790 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that the research was 
conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial relationships that could 
be construed as potential conflict of interests.


371. Psychoneuroendocrinology. 2019 Mar;101:128-137. doi: 
10.1016/j.psyneuen.2018.11.007. Epub 2018 Nov 11.

Chronic histamine 3 receptor antagonism alleviates depression like conditions in 
mice via modulation of brain-derived neurotrophic factor and 
hypothalamus-pituitary adrenal axis.

Kumar A(1), Dogra S(1), Sona C(2), Umrao D(1), Rashid M(3), Singh SK(3), 
Wahajuddin M(3), Yadav PN(4).

Author information:
(1)Pharmacology Division, CSIR-Central Drug Research Institute, Lucknow, 226031, 
India.
(2)Pharmacology Division, CSIR-Central Drug Research Institute, Lucknow, 226031, 
India; Academy of Scientific and Innovative Research (AcSIR), New Delhi, 110025, 
India.
(3)Division of Pharmaceutics and Pharmacokinetics, CSIR-Central Drug Research 
Institute, Lucknow, 226031, India.
(4)Pharmacology Division, CSIR-Central Drug Research Institute, Lucknow, 226031, 
India; Academy of Scientific and Innovative Research (AcSIR), New Delhi, 110025, 
India. Electronic address: pn.yadav@cdri.res.in.

The last two decades of research has established histamine (HA) as a 
neurotransmitter. Since H3R antagonists are known to modulate several 
neurotransmitters besides HA, H3R antagonists have shown potential for the 
treatment of different central nervous system disorders, including depression. 
However, molecular mechanisms underlying the beneficial effects of H3R 
antagonism in depression are not clear, yet. In the present study, we 
investigated the antidepressant potential of ciproxifan, a selective H3R 
antagonist, in chronic unpredictable stress (CUS) model of depression in 
C57BL/6 J mice. We observed that chronic treatment of CUS mice with ciproxifan 
(3 mg/kg i.p.; for three weeks) alleviates depression-like symptoms such as 
helplessness measured by forced swim and tail suspension test (FST and TST), 
anhedonia measured by sucrose preference test (SPT) and social deficit measured 
in social behavior test. Chronic ciproxifan treatment restored CUS induced BDNF 
expression in the prefrontal cortex (PFC) and hippocampus. We also observed that 
ciproxifan modulates CUS induced NUCB2/nesfatin-1 and CRH expression in the 
hypothalamus and plasma corticosterone. We also determined the direct effect of 
HA on BDNF expression in neurons by western blotting and immunocytochemistry, 
and found that HA significantly induced BDNF expression, which was blocked by 
the H4R selective antagonist, but not by other HA receptor selective 
antagonists. Furthermore, ciproxifan significantly modulated NMDA glutamate 
receptor subunits NR2B and NR2A. Thus, these results suggest that increased HA 
signaling in the brain produces antidepressant-like effects in mice and 
modulates BDNF expression and HPA-axis.

Copyright © 2018 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.psyneuen.2018.11.007
PMID: 30458370 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


372. J Vis Exp. 2018 Oct 24;(140):58184. doi: 10.3791/58184.

The Unpredictable Chronic Mild Stress Protocol for Inducing Anhedonia in Mice.

Burstein O(1), Doron R(2).

Author information:
(1)School of Behavioral Science, The Academic College Tel-Aviv-Yaffo.
(2)School of Behavioral Science, The Academic College Tel-Aviv-Yaffo; Department 
of Education and Psychology, Open University; raviddor@mta.ac.il.

Depression is a highly prevalent and debilitating condition, only partially 
addressed by current pharmacotherapies. The lack of response to treatment by 
many patients prompts the need to develop new therapeutic alternatives and to 
better understand the etiology of the disorder. Pre-clinical models with 
translational merits are rudimentary for this task. Here we present a protocol 
for the unpredictable chronic mild stress (UCMS) method in mice. In this 
protocol, adolescent mice are chronically exposed to interchanging unpredictable 
mild stressors. Resembling the pathogenesis of depression in humans, stress 
exposure during the sensitive period of mice adolescence instigates a 
depressive-like phenotype evident in adulthood. UCMS can be used for screenings 
of antidepressants on the variety of depressive-like behaviors and 
neuromolecular indices. Among the more prominent tests to assess depressive-like 
behavior in rodents is the sucrose preference test (SPT), which reflects 
anhedonia (core symptom of depression). The SPT will also be presented in this 
protocol. The ability of UCMS to induce anhedonia, instigate long-term 
behavioral deficits and enable reversal of these deficits via chronic (but not 
acute) treatment with antidepressants strengthens the protocol's validity 
compared to other animal protocols for inducing depressive-like behaviors.

DOI: 10.3791/58184
PMCID: PMC6235587
PMID: 30417885 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


373. Biomed Pharmacother. 2019 Mar;111:1499-1506. doi:
10.1016/j.biopha.2018.10.073.  Epub 2018 Nov 8.

Anti-depressive-like effect of 2-phenylethanol inhalation in mice.

Ueno H(1), Shimada A(2), Suemitsu S(3), Murakami S(4), Kitamura N(5), Wani K(6), 
Matsumoto Y(7), Okamoto M(8), Ishihara T(9).

Author information:
(1)Department of Medical Technology, Kawasaki University of Medical Welfare, 
Okayama, 701-0193, Japan. Electronic address: dhe422007@s.okayama-u.ac.jp.
(2)Division of Food and Nutrition, Nakamura Gakuen University Junior College, 
Fukuoka, 814-0198, Japan. Electronic address: atsushimada@nakamura-u.ac.jp.
(3)Department of Psychiatry, Kawasaki Medical School, Okayama, 701-0192, Japan. 
Electronic address: ssue@med.kawasaki-m.ac.jp.
(4)Department of Psychiatry, Kawasaki Medical School, Okayama, 701-0192, Japan. 
Electronic address: muraka@med.kawasaki-m.ac.jp.
(5)Department of Psychiatry, Kawasaki Medical School, Okayama, 701-0192, Japan. 
Electronic address: n-kitamura@med.kawasaki-m.ac.jp.
(6)Department of Psychiatry, Kawasaki Medical School, Okayama, 701-0192, Japan. 
Electronic address: k-wani@med.kawasaki-m.ac.jp.
(7)Department of Neuropsychiatry, Graduate School of Medicine, Dentistry and 
Pharmaceutical Sciences, Okayama University, Okayama, 700-8558, Japan. 
Electronic address: ymatsumoto@cc.okayama-u.ac.jp.
(8)Department of Medical Technology, Graduate School of Health Sciences, Okayama 
University, Okayama, 700-8558, Japan. Electronic address: 
mokamoto@md.okayama-u.ac.jp.
(9)Department of Psychiatry, Kawasaki Medical School, Okayama, 701-0192, Japan. 
Electronic address: t-ishihara@med.kawasaki-m.ac.jp.

Rose oil has traditionally been used to treat psychiatric disorders, but the 
scientific basis of this treatment remains poorly understood. The main odor 
component of rose oil is 2-phenylethanol (2-PE), but the neuropsychological 
effects of 2-PE have not been investigated in detail. Thus, we aimed to 
investigate the effects of 2-PE on mouse behavior. We first investigated whether 
2-PE is attractive or repulsive to mice. After 2-PE inhalation, the mice 
underwent a series of behavioral experiments, such as the elevated plus maze, 
open field, Y-maze, tail-suspension, and Porsolt forced-swim tests. Mice did not 
have a strong interest in 2-PE but were not repelled by it nor were fearful. In 
the open field test, mice that had inhaled 2-PE spent less time in the center 
area, while in the tail suspension test, their immobility time decreased. There 
was no change in cognitive function, activity level, muscle strength, or 
aggression in these mice. Our results suggest that 2-PE elicits 
neuropsychological effects that alter the behavior of mice and may also elicit 
anti-depressive effects. Inhalation of rose oil containing 2-PE may be effective 
against depression and stress-related diseases.

Copyright © 2018 Elsevier Masson SAS. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.biopha.2018.10.073
PMID: 30415864 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


374. Int J Neuropsychopharmacol. 2019 Feb 1;22(2):157-164. doi:
10.1093/ijnp/pyy091.

Antidepressant Effects of Rhodomyrtone in Mice with Chronic Unpredictable Mild 
Stress-Induced Depression.

Chai H(1), Liu B(1), Zhan H(1), Li X(1), He Z(1), Ye J(1), Guo Q(2), Chen J(2), 
Zhang J(3), Li S(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurosurgery, Dongguan People's Hospital, Affiliated Dongguan 
People's Hospital of Southern Medical University, Dongguan, Guangdong Province, 
China.
(2)Department of Epilepsy Surgery, Guangdong Sanjiu Brain Hospital, Guangzhou, 
Guangdong Province, China.
(3)Department of Neurosurgery, Dalang Hospital, Dongguan, Guangdong Province, 
China.

BACKGROUND: Rhodomyrtone is one of the main active compounds derived from 
Rhodomyrtus tomentosa, which belongs to the Myrtaceae family. In the current 
study, we investigated the properties of rhodomyrtone as a potential drug 
candidate for the treatment of stress-caused depression.
METHODS: We assessed the function of rhodomyrtone in chronic unpredictable mild 
stress, a well-validated depression model in mice. Depression-like behavior 
tests, including a sucrose performance test, social interaction test, and forced 
swimming test, were used to validate the antidepressant effects of rhodomyrtone. 
The Morris water maze was used to evaluate the mice's learning and memory 
ability. Spine density, glycogen synthase kinase-3β, brain-derived neurotrophic 
factor, postsynaptic density protein 95, and apoptosis-associated protein were 
detected to reveal the underlying mechanism.
RESULTS: Rhodomyrtone was found to prevent source consumption decrease, 
decreased social behaviors, and increase immobility in the forced swimming test, 
suggesting a protective effect of rhodomyrtone against depression-like 
behaviors. Additionally, rhodomyrtone prevented the impairment of spatial memory 
in mice exposed to chronic unpredictable mild stress. Rhodomyrtone 
administration also reversed dendritic spine density defects in chronic 
unpredictable mild stress. Furthermore, rhodomyrtone inhibited the increase of 
glycogen synthase kinase-3β activity and reversed the decrease of brain-derived 
neurotrophic factor and postsynaptic density protein 95 in chronic unpredictable 
mild stress mice. Elevated expression of apoptosis-associated protein Bax and 
cleaved-caspase 3 was also reversed by rhodomyrtone treatment.
CONCLUSIONS: These results suggested that the antidepressant effect of 
rhodomyrtone involves the regulation of neurogenesis, neuronal survival, and 
synaptic plasticity in the hippocampus.

DOI: 10.1093/ijnp/pyy091
PMCID: PMC6368369
PMID: 30407505 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


375. Int J Mol Sci. 2018 Nov 5;19(11):3468. doi: 10.3390/ijms19113468.

Agarwood Essential Oil Ameliorates Restrain Stress-Induced Anxiety and 
Depression by Inhibiting HPA Axis Hyperactivity.

Wang S(1)(2)(3), Wang C(4)(5), Yu Z(6)(7), Wu C(8), Peng D(9), Liu X(10), Liu 
Y(11)(12), Yang Y(13)(14), Guo P(15), Wei J(16)(17)(18)(19)(20).

Author information:
(1)Key Laboratory of Bioactive Substances and Resources Utilization of Chinese 
Herbal Medicine, Institute of Medicinal Plant Development, Chinese Academy of 
Medical Sciences & Peking Union Medical College, Beijing 100193, China. 
zhuizhirun@163.com.
(2)Ministry of Education & National Engineering Laboratory for Breeding of 
Endangered Medicinal Materials, Institute of Medicinal Plant Development, 
Chinese Academy of Medical Sciences & Peking Union Medical College, Beijing 
100193, China. zhuizhirun@163.com.
(3)Pharmacology and Toxicology Center, Institute of Medicinal Plant Development, 
Chinese Academy of Medical Sciences & Peking Union Medical College, Beijing 
100193, China. zhuizhirun@163.com.
(4)Hainan Provincial Key Laboratory of Resources Conservation and Development of 
Southern Medicine, Hainan Branch of the Institute of Medicinal Plant 
Development, Chinese Academy of Medical Sciences & Peking Union Medical College, 
Haikou 570311, China. xinzhuangjianpo@163.com.
(5)Key Laboratory of State Administration of Traditional Chinese Medicine for 
Agarwood Sustainable Utilization, Hainan Branch of the Institute of Medicinal 
Plant Development, Chinese Academy of Medical Sciences & Peking Union Medical 
College, Haikou 570311, China. xinzhuangjianpo@163.com.
(6)Hainan Provincial Key Laboratory of Resources Conservation and Development of 
Southern Medicine, Hainan Branch of the Institute of Medicinal Plant 
Development, Chinese Academy of Medical Sciences & Peking Union Medical College, 
Haikou 570311, China. yu_xin712@163.com.
(7)Key Laboratory of State Administration of Traditional Chinese Medicine for 
Agarwood Sustainable Utilization, Hainan Branch of the Institute of Medicinal 
Plant Development, Chinese Academy of Medical Sciences & Peking Union Medical 
College, Haikou 570311, China. yu_xin712@163.com.
(8)Pharmacology and Toxicology Center, Institute of Medicinal Plant Development, 
Chinese Academy of Medical Sciences & Peking Union Medical College, Beijing 
100193, China. cmwu@implad.ac.cn.
(9)School of Pharmacy, Hainan Medical College, Haikou 571199, China. 
pengdeqian2004@163.com.
(10)Pharmacology and Toxicology Center, Institute of Medicinal Plant 
Development, Chinese Academy of Medical Sciences & Peking Union Medical College, 
Beijing 100193, China. liuxinmin@hotmail.com.
(11)Hainan Provincial Key Laboratory of Resources Conservation and Development 
of Southern Medicine, Hainan Branch of the Institute of Medicinal Plant 
Development, Chinese Academy of Medical Sciences & Peking Union Medical College, 
Haikou 570311, China. yyliu@implad.ac.cn.
(12)Key Laboratory of State Administration of Traditional Chinese Medicine for 
Agarwood Sustainable Utilization, Hainan Branch of the Institute of Medicinal 
Plant Development, Chinese Academy of Medical Sciences & Peking Union Medical 
College, Haikou 570311, China. yyliu@implad.ac.cn.
(13)Hainan Provincial Key Laboratory of Resources Conservation and Development 
of Southern Medicine, Hainan Branch of the Institute of Medicinal Plant 
Development, Chinese Academy of Medical Sciences & Peking Union Medical College, 
Haikou 570311, China. yangyun43@gmail.com.
(14)Key Laboratory of State Administration of Traditional Chinese Medicine for 
Agarwood Sustainable Utilization, Hainan Branch of the Institute of Medicinal 
Plant Development, Chinese Academy of Medical Sciences & Peking Union Medical 
College, Haikou 570311, China. yangyun43@gmail.com.
(15)Pharmacology and Toxicology Center, Institute of Medicinal Plant 
Development, Chinese Academy of Medical Sciences & Peking Union Medical College, 
Beijing 100193, China. pguo@implad.ac.cn.
(16)Key Laboratory of Bioactive Substances and Resources Utilization of Chinese 
Herbal Medicine, Institute of Medicinal Plant Development, Chinese Academy of 
Medical Sciences & Peking Union Medical College, Beijing 100193, China. 
wjianh@263.net.
(17)Ministry of Education & National Engineering Laboratory for Breeding of 
Endangered Medicinal Materials, Institute of Medicinal Plant Development, 
Chinese Academy of Medical Sciences & Peking Union Medical College, Beijing 
100193, China. wjianh@263.net.
(18)Pharmacology and Toxicology Center, Institute of Medicinal Plant 
Development, Chinese Academy of Medical Sciences & Peking Union Medical College, 
Beijing 100193, China. wjianh@263.net.
(19)Hainan Provincial Key Laboratory of Resources Conservation and Development 
of Southern Medicine, Hainan Branch of the Institute of Medicinal Plant 
Development, Chinese Academy of Medical Sciences & Peking Union Medical College, 
Haikou 570311, China. wjianh@263.net.
(20)Key Laboratory of State Administration of Traditional Chinese Medicine for 
Agarwood Sustainable Utilization, Hainan Branch of the Institute of Medicinal 
Plant Development, Chinese Academy of Medical Sciences & Peking Union Medical 
College, Haikou 570311, China. wjianh@263.net.

In our previous investigation, we found that agarwood essential oil (AEO) has a 
sedative-hypnotic effect. Sedative-hypnotic drugs usually have an anxiolytic 
effect, where concomitant anxiety and depression are a common comorbidity. 
Therefore, this study further investigated the anxiolytic and antidepressant 
effects of AEO using a series of animal behavior tests on a restraint 
stress-induced mice model. The elevated plus maze (EPM) test, the light dark 
exploration (LDE) test, and the open field (OF) test demonstrated that AEO has a 
significant anxiolytic effect. Simultaneously, the tail suspension (TS) test and 
the forced swimming (FS) test illuminated that AEO has an antidepressant effect 
with the immobility time decreased. Stress can cause cytokine and nitric oxide 
(NO) elevation, and further lead to hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis 
hyperactivity. AEO was shown to dose-dependently inhibit the levels of 
cytokines, including interleukin 1α (IL-1α), IL-1β, and IL-6 in serum, 
significantly decrease the mRNA level of neural nitric oxide synthase (nNOS) in 
the cerebral cortex and hippocampus, and inhibit the nNOS protein level in the 
hippocampus. Concomitant measurements of the HPA axis upstream regulator 
corticotropin releasing factor (CRF) and its receptor CRFR found that AEO 
significantly decreases the gene expression of CRF, and significantly inhibits 
the gene transcription and protein expression of CRFR in the cerebral cortex and 
hippocampus. Additionally, AEO dose-dependently reduces the concentrations of 
adrenocorticotropic hormone (ACTH) and corticosterone (CORT) downstream of the 
HPA axis, as measured by ELISA kits. These results together demonstrate that AEO 
exerts anxiolytic and antidepressant effects which are related to the inhibition 
of CRF and hyperactivity of the HPA axis.

DOI: 10.3390/ijms19113468
PMCID: PMC6274913
PMID: 30400578 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


376. Ecotoxicol Environ Saf. 2019 Jan 30;168:338-347. doi: 
10.1016/j.ecoenv.2018.10.090. Epub 2018 Nov 2.

Exposure to nanoscale diesel exhaust particles: Oxidative stress, 
neuroinflammation, anxiety and depression on adult male mice.

Ehsanifar M(1), Tameh AA(2), Farzadkia M(3), Kalantari RR(3), Zavareh MS(4), 
Nikzaad H(2), Jafari AJ(5).

Author information:
(1)Research Center for Environmental Health Technology and Department of 
Environmental Health Engineering, School of Public Health, Iran University of 
Medical Sciences, Tehran, Iran; Anatomical Sciences Research Center, Kashan 
University of Medical Sciences, Kashan, Iran. Electronic address: 
Ehsanifar@gmail.com.
(2)Anatomical Sciences Research Center, Kashan University of Medical Sciences, 
Kashan, Iran.
(3)Research Center for Environmental Health Technology and Department of 
Environmental Health Engineering, School of Public Health, Iran University of 
Medical Sciences, Tehran, Iran.
(4)Physiology Research Center, Kashan University of Medical Sciences, Kashan, 
Iran.
(5)Research Center for Environmental Health Technology and Department of 
Environmental Health Engineering, School of Public Health, Iran University of 
Medical Sciences, Tehran, Iran. Electronic address: jonidi.a@IUMS.ac.ir.

Exposure to nanoscale diesel engines exhausted particles (DEPs) is a 
well-recognized risk factor for respiratory and cardiovascular diseases. Rodents 
as commonly used models for urban air pollution in health effect studies 
demonstrate constant stimulation of inflammatory responses in the main areas of 
the brain. Nevertheless, the primary effect of diesel exhaust particulate matter 
on some of the brain regions and relation by behavioral alterations still 
remains untouched. We evaluated the brain regional inflammatory responses to a 
nanosized subfraction of diesel engines exhaust particulate matter (DEPs < 
200 nm) in an adult male mice brain. Adult male mice were exposed to DEPs for 3, 
6, and 8 h per day, 12 weeks and five days per week. Degree of anxiety and the 
depression by elevated plus maze and Forced Swimming Test respectively (FST) did 
measurement. After behavior tests, the plasma and some of the brain regions such 
as olfactory bulb (OB) and hippocampus (HI) were analyzed for oxidative stress 
and inflammatory responses. The inflammation and oxidative stress changes in OB 
and HI, markedly coincides with the results of behavioral alterations. These 
responses corresponded with rapid induction of MDA and nitrite oxide (NO) in 
brain regions and neuronal nitric oxide synthase (nNOS) mRNA followed by IL6, 
IL1α, and TNFα in OB and HI. The different times of DEPs exposure, leads to 
oxidative stress and inflammatory in plasma and brain regions. That this 
cumulative transport of inhaled nanoscale DEPs into the brain and creating to 
inflammation responses of brain regions may cause problems of brain function and 
anxiety and depression.

Copyright © 2018 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ecoenv.2018.10.090
PMID: 30391838 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


377. Brain Res Bull. 2019 Jan;144:213-222. doi:
10.1016/j.brainresbull.2018.10.010.  Epub 2018 Oct 29.

Near-infrared photobiomodulation combined with coenzyme Q(10) for depression in 
a mouse model of restraint stress: reduction in oxidative stress, 
neuroinflammation, and apoptosis.

Salehpour F(1), Farajdokht F(2), Cassano P(3), Sadigh-Eteghad S(2), Erfani M(4), 
Hamblin MR(5), Salimi MM(6), Karimi P(2), Rasta SH(7), Mahmoudi J(8).

Author information:
(1)Neurosciences Research Center, Tabriz University of Medical Sciences, Tabriz, 
Iran; Department of Medical Physics, Tabriz University of Medical Sciences, 
Tabriz, Iran; ProNeuroLIGHT LLC, Phoenix, AZ, USA.
(2)Neurosciences Research Center, Tabriz University of Medical Sciences, Tabriz, 
Iran.
(3)Harvard Medical School, Department of Psychiatry, Boston, MA, USA; Depression 
Clinical and Research Program, Department of Psychiatry, Massachusetts General 
Hospital, Boston, MA, USA; Center for Anxiety and Traumatic Stress Disorders, 
Department of Psychiatry, Massachusetts General Hospital, Boston, MA, USA.
(4)Neurosciences Research Center, Tabriz University of Medical Sciences, Tabriz, 
Iran; Higher Academic Education Institute of Rab-Rashid, Tabriz, Iran.
(5)Wellman Center for Photomedicine, Massachusetts General Hospital, Boston, MA, 
USA; Department of Dermatology, Harvard Medical School, Boston, MA, USA; 
Harvard-MIT Division of Health Sciences and Technology, Cambridge, MA, USA.
(6)Department of Communication Disorders, Faculty of Rehabilitation, Tabriz 
University of Medical Sciences, Tabriz, Iran.
(7)Department of Medical Physics, Tabriz University of Medical Sciences, Tabriz, 
Iran; Department of Medical Bioengineering, Tabriz University of Medical 
Sciences, Tabriz, Iran; School of Medical Sciences, University of Aberdeen, 
Aberdeen, UK.
(8)Neurosciences Research Center, Tabriz University of Medical Sciences, Tabriz, 
Iran. Electronic address: Mahmoudi2044@yahoo.com.

This study was aimed to evaluate the effects of near-infrared (NIR) 
photobiomodulation (PBM) combined with coenzyme Q10 (CoQ10) on depressive-like 
behavior, cerebral oxidative stress, inflammation, and apoptosis markers in 
mice. To induce a depressive-like model, mice were subjected to sub-chronic 
restraint stress for 5 consecutive days. NIR PBM (810 nm laser, 33.3 J/cm2) 
and/or CoQ10 (500 mg/kg/day, gavage) were administered for five days 
concomitantly with immobilization. Behavior was evaluated by the forced swim 
test (FST), tail suspension test (TST), and open field test (OFT). Mitochondrial 
membrane potential as well as oxidative stress, neuroinflammatory, and markers 
of apoptosis were evaluated in the prefrontal cortex (PFC) and hippocampus 
(HIP). The serum levels of pro-inflammatory cytokines, cortisol, and 
corticosterone were also measured. PBM or CoQ10, or the combination, ameliorated 
depressive-like behaviors induced by restraint stress as indicated by decreased 
immobility time in both the FST and TST. PBM and/or CoQ10 treatments decreased 
lipid peroxidation and enhanced total antioxidant capacity (TAC), GSH levels, 
GPx and SOD activities in both brain areas. The neuroinflammatory response in 
the HIP and PFC was suppressed, as indicated by decreased NF-kB, p38, and JNK 
levels in PBM and/or CoQ10 groups. Intrinsic apoptosis biomarkers, BAX, Bcl-2, 
cytochrome c release, and caspase-3 and -9, were also significantly 
down-regulated by both treatments. Furthermore, both treatments decreased the 
elevated serum levels of cortisol, corticosterone, TNF-α, and IL-6 induced by 
restraint stress. Transcranial NIR PBM and CoQ10 therapies may be effective 
antidepressant strategies for the prevention of psychopathological and 
behavioral symptoms induced by stress.

Copyright © 2018 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.brainresbull.2018.10.010
PMCID: PMC6309497
PMID: 30385146 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


378. Sci Rep. 2018 Oct 9;8(1):15008. doi: 10.1038/s41598-018-33410-1.

Stress-induced changes in social dominance are scaled by AMPA-type glutamate 
receptor phosphorylation in the medial prefrontal cortex.

Park MJ(1), Seo BA(1), Lee B(1), Shin HS(1), Kang MG(2).

Author information:
(1)Center for Cognition and Sociality, Institute for Basic Science (IBS), 
Daejeon, 34141, Republic of Korea.
(2)Center for Cognition and Sociality, Institute for Basic Science (IBS), 
Daejeon, 34141, Republic of Korea. mkang13@gmail.com.

The establishment and maintenance of social dominance are critical for social 
stability and the survival and health of individual animals. Stress lead to 
depression and a decrease in the social status of depressed persons is a risk 
factor for suicide. Therefore, we explored the mechanistic and behavioral links 
among stress, depression, and social dominance and found that mice subjected to 
chronic restraint stress (CRS), an animal model of stress-induced depression, 
showed decreased social dominance as measured by a dominance tube test. 
Importantly, this submissive behavior was occluded by the antidepressant, 
fluoxetine, a selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor. It is known that social 
dominance is controlled by synaptic efficacy in the medial prefrontal cortex 
(mPFC) and that AMPA-type glutamate receptor (AMPA-R) is a key molecule for 
synaptic efficacy. We found that the phosphorylation on AMPA-R was 
bidirectionally changed by CRS and fluoxetine in the mPFC of mice with CRS. 
Moreover, we found a strong correlation between social dominance and AMPA-R 
phosphorylation that regulates synaptic efficacy by modulating the synaptic 
targeting of AMPA-R. Our correlational analysis of the behavior and biochemistry 
of the CRS model suggests that AMPA-R phosphorylation in the mPFC may serve as a 
biomarker of social dominance related to stress.

DOI: 10.1038/s41598-018-33410-1
PMCID: PMC6177388
PMID: 30301947 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no competing interests.


379. Psychoneuroendocrinology. 2019 Feb;100:96-105. doi: 
10.1016/j.psyneuen.2018.09.038. Epub 2018 Sep 29.

Ciliary neurotrophic factor is a key sex-specific regulator of depressive-like 
behavior in mice.

Jia C(1), Brown RW(2), Malone HM(2), Burgess KC(2), Gill WD(2), Keasey MP(2), 
Hagg T(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Biomedical Sciences, Quillen College of Medicine, East 
Tennessee State University, Johnson City, TN, 37614, USA. Electronic address: 
jiac01@etsu.edu.
(2)Department of Biomedical Sciences, Quillen College of Medicine, East 
Tennessee State University, Johnson City, TN, 37614, USA.

Ciliary neurotrophic factor (CNTF) is produced by astrocytes and promotes 
neurogenesis and neuroprotection. Little is known about the role of CNTF in 
affective behavior. We investigated whether CNTF affects depressive- and 
anxiety-like behavior in adult mice as tested in the forced swim, sucrose 
preference and elevated-T maze tests. Female wild type CNTF+/+ mice more readily 
developed behavioral despair with increased immobility time and decreased 
latency to immobility in the forced swim test than male CNTF+/+ littermates. The 
lack of CNTF in CNTF-/- mice had an opposite effect on depressive-like behavior 
in female mice (reduced immobility time and increased sucrose preference) vs. 
male mice (increased immobility time). Female wildtype mice expressed more CNTF 
in the amygdala than male mice. Ovariectomy increased CNTF expression, as well 
as immobility time, which was significantly reduced in CNTF-/- mice, suggesting 
that CNTF mediates overiectomy-induced immobility time, possibly in the 
amygdala. Progesterone but not 17-β estradiol inhibited CNTF expression in 
cultured C6 astroglioma cells. Progesterone treatment also reduced CNTF 
expression in the amygdala and decreased immobility time in female CNTF+/+ but 
not in CNTF-/- mice. Castration did not alter CNTF expression in males nor their 
behavior. Lastly, there were no effects of CNTF on the elevated T-maze, a 
behavioral test of anxiety, suggesting that a different mechanism may underlie 
anxiety-like behavior. This study reveals a novel CNTF-mediated mechanism in 
stress-induced depressive-like behavior and points to opportunities for 
sex-specific treatments for depression, e.g. progesterone in females and 
CNTF-stimulating drugs in males.

Copyright © 2018 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.psyneuen.2018.09.038
PMCID: PMC6333501
PMID: 30299260 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of interest: The authors declare no 
competing financial interests or potential conflicts of interest.


380. Front Behav Neurosci. 2018 Sep 21;12:215. doi: 10.3389/fnbeh.2018.00215. 
eCollection 2018.

Mice With Partial Deletion of Y-Heterochromatin Exhibits Stress Vulnerability.

Dey SK(1)(2), Kamle A(1), Dereddi RR(1), Thomas SM(1), Thummala SR(1), Kumar 
A(1), Chakravarty S(2), Jesudasan RA(1).

Author information:
(1)CSIR-Centre for Cellular and Molecular Biology, Hyderabad, India.
(2)CSIR-Indian Institute of Chemical Technology, Hyderabad, India.

The role of Y chromosome in sex determination and male fertility is well 
established. It is also known that infertile men are prone to psychological 
disturbances. Earlier studies in the laboratory identified genes expressed in 
testes that are putatively regulated by Y chromosome in man and mouse. With the 
availability of a Y-deleted mouse model, that is subfertile, we studied the 
effect of a partial deletion of Y-chromosomal heterochromatin on mouse behavior 
when compared to its wild type. The partial Y-deleted mice exhibited anxiety 
like phenotype under stress when different anxiety (open field test and elevated 
plus maze, EPM test) and depression related tests (tail suspension and force 
swim) were performed. The mutant mice also showed reduction in hippocampal 
neurogenesis and altered expression of neurogenesis markers such as Nestin, 
Sox2, Gfap, NeuroD1 and Dcx using quantitative real time PCR (qPCR) analysis. 
The genes with altered expression contained short stretches of homology to 
Y-derived transcripts only in their Untranslated Regions (UTRs). Our study 
suggests putative regulation of these genes by the Y chromosome in mouse brain 
altering stress related behavior.

DOI: 10.3389/fnbeh.2018.00215
PMCID: PMC6160548
PMID: 30297990


381. Behav Brain Funct. 2018 Oct 8;14(1):16. doi: 10.1186/s12993-018-0148-5.

Effects of social defeat stress on dopamine D2 receptor isoforms and proteins 
involved in intracellular trafficking.

Prabhu VV(1)(2), Nguyen TB(1)(2), Cui Y(3), Oh YE(1)(2), Lee KH(4), Bagalkot 
TR(5), Chung YC(6)(7).

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychiatry, Chonbuk National University Medical School, Jeonju, 
561-756, South Korea.
(2)Research Institute of Clinical Medicine of Chonbuk National 
University-Biomedical Research Institute of Chonbuk National University 
Hospital, Jeonju, 561-756, South Korea.
(3)Shanghai Mental Health Center, Shanghai Jiao Tong University of Medicine, 600 
Wan Ping Nan Road, Shanghai, 200013, P. R. China.
(4)Department of Psychiatry, Maeumsarang Hospital, 465-23, Wanju, Jeollabuk-do, 
South Korea.
(5)Department of Cell Biology, University of Pittsburgh, 200 Lothrop Street, 
Biomedical Science Tower S372, Pittsburgh, PA, 15213, USA.
(6)Department of Psychiatry, Chonbuk National University Medical School, Jeonju, 
561-756, South Korea. chungyc@jbnu.ac.kr.
(7)Research Institute of Clinical Medicine of Chonbuk National 
University-Biomedical Research Institute of Chonbuk National University 
Hospital, Jeonju, 561-756, South Korea. chungyc@jbnu.ac.kr.

BACKGROUND: Chronic social defeat stress induces depression and anxiety-like 
behaviors in rodents and also responsible for differentiating defeated animals 
into stress susceptible and resilient groups. The present study investigated the 
effects of social defeat stress on a variety of behavioral parameters like 
social behavior, spatial learning and memory and anxiety like behaviors. 
Additionally, the levels of various dopaminergic markers, including the long and 
short form of the D2 receptor, and total and phosphorylated dopamine and cyclic 
adenosine 3',5'-monophosphate regulated phosphoprotein-32, and proteins involved 
in intracellular trafficking were assessed in several key brain regions in young 
adult mice.
METHODS: Mouse model of chronic social defeat was established by 
resident-intruder paradigm, and to evaluate the effect of chronic social defeat, 
mice were subjected to behavioral tests like spontaneous locomotor activity, 
elevated plus maze (EPM), social interaction and Morris water maze tests.
RESULTS: Mice were divided into susceptible and unsusceptible groups after 
10 days of social defeat stress. The susceptible group exhibited greater 
decreases in time spent in the open and closed arms compared to the control 
group on the EPM. In the social interaction test, the susceptible group showed 
greater increases in submissive and neutral behaviors and greater decreases in 
social behaviors relative to baseline compared to the control group. 
Furthermore, increased expression of D2L, D2S, Rab4, and G protein-coupled 
receptor associated sorting protein-1 was observed in the amygdala of the 
susceptible group compared to the control group.
CONCLUSION: These findings suggest that social defeat stress induce anxiety-like 
and altered social interacting behaviors, and changes in dopaminergic markers 
and intracellular trafficking-related proteins.

DOI: 10.1186/s12993-018-0148-5
PMCID: PMC6176509
PMID: 30296947 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


382. Neuropharmacology. 2018 Dec;143:176-185. doi:
10.1016/j.neuropharm.2018.09.039.  Epub 2018 Sep 27.

Inhibition of phosphodiesterase 2 reverses gp91phox oxidase-mediated depression- 
and anxiety-like behavior.

Huang X(1), Xiaokaiti Y(2), Yang J(3), Pan J(4), Li Z(2), Luria V(5), Li Y(6), 
Song G(7), Zhu X(8), Zhang HT(9), O'Donnell JM(10), Xu Y(11).

Author information:
(1)School of Pharmaceutical Engineering and Life Sciences, Changzhou University, 
Changzhou, 213164, China; Department of Pharmaceutical Sciences, School of 
Pharmacy and Pharmaceutical Sciences, University at Buffalo, The State 
University of New York, Buffalo, NY, 14214, USA.
(2)Department of Pharmaceutical Sciences, School of Pharmacy and Pharmaceutical 
Sciences, University at Buffalo, The State University of New York, Buffalo, NY, 
14214, USA.
(3)Department of Pharmacology, Chongqing Medical University, Chongqing, 400016, 
China.
(4)Brain Institute, School of Pharmacy, Wenzhou Medical University, Wenzhou, 
325021, China.
(5)Department of Systems Biology, Harvard Medical School, Boston, MA, 02115, 
USA.
(6)Beijing Institutes of Pharmacology and Toxicology, Beijing, 100850, China.
(7)School of Pharmaceutical Engineering and Life Sciences, Changzhou University, 
Changzhou, 213164, China.
(8)Department of Pathology, Case Western Reserve University, Cleveland, OH, 
44106, USA.
(9)Departments of Behavioral Medicine & Psychiatry and Physiology, Pharmacology 
& Neuroscience, Rockefeller Neurosciences Institute, West Virginia University 
Health Sciences Center, Morgantown, WV, 26506, USA.
(10)Department of Pharmaceutical Sciences, School of Pharmacy and Pharmaceutical 
Sciences, University at Buffalo, The State University of New York, Buffalo, NY, 
14214, USA. Electronic address: jod@buffalo.edu.
(11)Department of Pharmaceutical Sciences, School of Pharmacy and Pharmaceutical 
Sciences, University at Buffalo, The State University of New York, Buffalo, NY, 
14214, USA. Electronic address: yxu9@buffalo.edu.

Phosphodiesterase 2 (PDE2) plays an important role in treatment of 
stress-related depression through regulation of antioxidant defense and 
neuroprotective mechanisms. However, the causal relationship between PDE2 and 
the prevalence of depression and anxiety upon exposure to oxidative stress has 
not been investigated. The present study examined whether the effects of PDE2 
inhibition on oxidative stress were directly involved in reduced ROS by 
regulating NADPH subunits gp91phox oxidase. The results suggested that the PDE2 
inhibitor Bay 60-7550 reversed oxidative stress-induced behavioral signature, 
i.e. depression and anxiety. Pretreatment with the oxidizing agent DTNB 
completely blocked, while the reducing agent DTT and the NADPH oxidase inhibitor 
apocynin potentiated the effects of Bay 60-7550 on behavioral abnormalities, 
demonstrating the relationship between PDE2 and oxidative stress. Consistently, 
an in vitro test revealed the positive correlation between ROS and PDE2 levels. 
Moreover, Bay 60-7550 decreased corticosterone-induced gp91phox expression, 
which is the source of ROS. The subsequent study suggested that Bay 60-7550 
induced decrease in ROS and increase in cAMP/cGMP, pVASP, pCREB, and the 
neurotrophic factor BDNF levels, which were completely blocked by 
CRISPR/Cas9-mediated gp91phox overexpression and potentiated by gp91phox 
siRNA-based antioxidant strategies. The in vivo test in stressed mice further 
suggested that gp91phox overexpression completely blocked the antidepressant- 
and anxiolytic-like effects of Bay 60-7550, while gp91phox knockdown enhanced 
such effects. These results provide solid evidence that the antidepressant- and 
anxiolytic-like effects of Bay 60-7550 against stress are causally related to 
down-regulation of gp91phox and activation of the cAMP/cGMP-pVASP-CREB-BDNF 
signaling pathway.

Copyright © 2018. Published by Elsevier Ltd.

DOI: 10.1016/j.neuropharm.2018.09.039
PMID: 30268520 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


383. Life Sci. 2018 Nov 1;212:9-19. doi: 10.1016/j.lfs.2018.09.031. Epub 2018 Sep
21.

HTLV-1 infection-induced motor dysfunction, memory impairment, depression, and 
brain tissues oxidative damage in female BALB/c mice.

Hedayati Moghadam M(1), Rezaee SAR(2), Hosseini M(3), Niazmand S(4), Salmani 
H(3), Rafatpanah H(2), Asarzadegan Dezfuli M(5), Amel Zabihi N(1), Abareshi 
A(3), Mahmoudabady M(6).

Author information:
(1)Department of Physiology, Faculty of Medicine, Mashhad University of Medical 
Sciences, Mashhad, Iran.
(2)Immunology Research Center, Inflammation and Inflammatory Diseases Division, 
Mashhad University of Medical Sciences, Mashhad, Iran.
(3)Neurocognitive Research Center, Mashhad University of Medical Sciences, 
Mashhad, Iran.
(4)Department of Physiology, Faculty of Medicine, Mashhad University of Medical 
Sciences, Mashhad, Iran; Neurogenesis-inflammation Center, Mashhad University of 
Medical Sciences, Mashhad, Iran. Electronic address: niazmands@mums.ac.ir.
(5)Department of Biology, Science and Research Branch, Islamic Azad University, 
Tehran, Iran.
(6)Department of Physiology, Faculty of Medicine, Mashhad University of Medical 
Sciences, Mashhad, Iran; Neurogenesis-inflammation Center, Mashhad University of 
Medical Sciences, Mashhad, Iran.

AIMS: The HTLV-1 infection is associated with a neuro-inflammatory disease. In 
the present study, the behavioral consequences and brain oxidative damages were 
evaluated in HTLV-1-infected BALB/c mice.
MATERIAL AND METHODS: 20 female BALB/c mice were divided into two groups 
comprising control and HTLV-1-infected. The HTLV-1-infected group was inoculated 
with a 106 MT-2 HTLV-1-infected cell line. Two months later, the behavioral 
tests were conducted. Finally, oxidative stress was assessed in the cortex and 
hippocampus tissues.
KEY FINDINGS: In the HTLV-1-infected group, running time and latency to fall, 
travel distance and time spent in the peripheral zone, total crossing number and 
total traveled distance in open field test, the latency of entrance into the 
dark compartment in the passive avoidance test, the new object exploration 
percentage, and discrimination ratio were significantly lower than in the 
control group. The immobility time, time spent in the dark compartment in 
passive avoidance test, and total exploration time significantly increased in 
the HTLV-1-infected group compared to the control group. In the cortical tissue 
of the HTLV-1 group, the malondialdehyde levels were elevated while the total 
thiol levels decreased in comparison to the control group. The activity of 
superoxide dismutase in the cortical and hippocampal tissues, and catalase 
activity in cortical tissue significantly decreased in the HTLV-1 group in 
comparison to the control group.
SIGNIFICANCE: The HTLV-1 infection seems to induce depression-like behavior, 
motor dysfunction, disruption in working and fear memory and also oxidative 
stress in the cortex and hippocampus.

Copyright © 2018 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.lfs.2018.09.031
PMID: 30248348 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


384. Neuropharmacology. 2018 Dec;143:79-94. doi:
10.1016/j.neuropharm.2018.09.016.  Epub 2018 Sep 18.

Orexin 2 receptor stimulation enhances resilience, while orexin 2 inhibition 
promotes susceptibility, to social stress, anxiety and depression.

Staton CD(1), Yaeger JDW(1), Khalid D(2), Haroun F(3), Fernandez BS(4), 
Fernandez JS(4), Summers BK(5), Summers TR(1), Sathyanesan M(6), Newton SS(6), 
Summers CH(7).

Author information:
(1)Department of Biology, University of South Dakota, Vermillion, SD 57069, USA; 
Neuroscience Group, Division of Basic Biomedical Sciences, Sanford School of 
Medicine, University of South Dakota, Vermillion, SD 57069, USA; Veterans 
Affairs Research Service, Sioux Falls VA Health Care System, Sioux Falls, SD 
57105, USA.
(2)Department of Biology, University of South Dakota, Vermillion, SD 57069, USA; 
Department of Biology, University of Massachusetts, Boston, 100William T. 
Morrissey Blvd, Boston, MA 02125, USA.
(3)Department of Biology, University of South Dakota, Vermillion, SD 57069, USA; 
Department of Biology, University of Utah, 257 South 1400 East, Rm. 201 Salt 
Lake City, UT 84112-0840, USA.
(4)Department of Biology, University of South Dakota, Vermillion, SD 57069, USA.
(5)Vermillion High School, 1001 E Main Street, Vermillion, SD 57069, USA; 
Department of Chemistry, Colorado State University, 1301 Center Ave Campus 
Delivery 1872, Ft. Collins, CO 80523-1872, USA.
(6)Neuroscience Group, Division of Basic Biomedical Sciences, Sanford School of 
Medicine, University of South Dakota, Vermillion, SD 57069, USA.
(7)Department of Biology, University of South Dakota, Vermillion, SD 57069, USA; 
Neuroscience Group, Division of Basic Biomedical Sciences, Sanford School of 
Medicine, University of South Dakota, Vermillion, SD 57069, USA; Veterans 
Affairs Research Service, Sioux Falls VA Health Care System, Sioux Falls, SD 
57105, USA. Electronic address: cliff@usd.edu.

Knockdown of orexin/hypocretin 2 receptor (Orx2) in the basolateral amygdala 
(BLA) affects anxious and depressive behavior. We use a new behavioral paradigm, 
the Stress Alternatives Model (SAM), designed to improve translational impact. 
The SAM induces social stress in adult male mice by aggression from larger mice, 
allowing for adaptive decision-making regarding escape. In this model, mice 
remain (Stay) in the oval SAM arena or escape from social aggression (Escape) 
via routes only large enough for the smaller mouse. We hypothesized 
intracerebroventricular (icv) stimulation of Orx2 receptors would be anxiolytic 
and antidepressive in SAM-related social behavior and the Social 
Interaction/Preference (SIP) test. Conversely, we predicted that icv antagonism 
of Orx2 receptors would promote anxious and depressive behavior in these same 
tests. Anxious behaviors such as freezing (both cued and conflict) and startle 
are exhibited more often in Stay compared with Escape phenotype mice. Time spent 
attentive to the escape route is more frequent in Escape mice. In Stay mice, 
stimulation of Orx2 receptors reduces fear conditioning, conflict freezing and 
startle, and promotes greater attention to the escape hole. This anxiolysis was 
accompanied by activation of a cluster of inhibitory neurons in the amygdala. A 
small percentage of those Stay mice also begin escaping; whereas Escape is 
reversed by the Orx2 antagonist. Escape mice were also Resilient, and Stay mice 
Susceptible to stress (SIP), with both conditions reversed by Orx2 antagonism or 
stimulation respectively. Together, these results suggest that the Orx2 receptor 
may be a useful potential target for anxiolytic or antidepressive therapeutics.

Copyright © 2018 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Ltd.. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.neuropharm.2018.09.016
PMCID: PMC6275094
PMID: 30240784 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of Interest The authors declare that 
they have no conflicts of interest.


385. Neuropsychopharmacology. 2019 Mar;44(4):711-720. doi:
10.1038/s41386-018-0195-5.  Epub 2018 Sep 6.

Early life stress leads to sex differences in development of depressive-like 
outcomes in a mouse model.

Goodwill HL(1), Manzano-Nieves G(1), Gallo M(2), Lee HI(1), Oyerinde E(1), Serre 
T(2), Bath KG(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Neuroscience, Brown University, Providence, RI, 02912, USA.
(2)Department of Cognitive, Linguistic, and Psychological Sciences, Brown 
University, Providence, RI, 02912, USA.
(3)Department of Cognitive, Linguistic, and Psychological Sciences, Brown 
University, Providence, RI, 02912, USA. Kevin_Bath@Brown.edu.

Childhood trauma and neglect influence emotional development and increase the 
risk for and severity of mental illness. Women have a heightened susceptibility 
to the effects of early life stress (ELS) and are twice as likely as men to 
develop debilitating, stress-associated disorders later in life, such as major 
depressive disorder (MDD). Until now, mouse models of depression have been 
largely unsuccessful at replicating the diverse symptomatology of this disease 
and the sex bias in vulnerability. From P4 to P11, a limited bedding model that 
leads to fragmented maternal care, was used to induce ELS. Early adolescent and 
young adult mice were tested on an array of assays to test for depressive-like 
behavior. This included our newly developed automated home cage behavioral 
recognition system, where the home cage behavior of ELS and control mice could 
be monitored over a continuous 5-10 day span. ELS females, but not males, 
exhibited depressive-like behaviors on traditional assays. These effects emerged 
during adolescence and became more severe in adulthood. Using the novel home 
cage video monitoring method, we identified robust and continuous markers of 
depressive-like pathology in ELS females that phenocopy many of the behavioral 
characteristics of depression in humans. ELS effects on home cage behavior were 
rapidly rescued by ketamine, a fast-acting antidepressant. Together, these 
findings highlight that limited bedding ELS (1) produces an early emerging, 
female-specific depressive phenotype that responds to a fast-acting 
antidepressant and (2) this model has the potential to inform sex-selective risk 
for the development of stress-induced mental illness.

DOI: 10.1038/s41386-018-0195-5
PMCID: PMC6372611
PMID: 30188513 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: KGB serves as a consultant for Prothera 
Biologics and TS serves as a scientific advisor for Vium Inc. The remaining 
authors declare no competing interests.


386. Neuropharmacology. 2019 Jan;144:282-290. doi:
10.1016/j.neuropharm.2018.08.033.  Epub 2018 Sep 1.

Cav1.2 L-type calcium channels regulate stress coping behavior via serotonin 
neurons.

Ehlinger DG(1), Commons KG(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Anesthesiology, Perioperative and Pain Medicine, Boston 
Children's Hospital, Boston, MA, USA; Department of Anesthesia, Harvard Medical 
School, Boston, MA, USA. Electronic address: daniel.ehlinger@uwrf.edu.
(2)Department of Anesthesiology, Perioperative and Pain Medicine, Boston 
Children's Hospital, Boston, MA, USA; Department of Anesthesia, Harvard Medical 
School, Boston, MA, USA.

Human genetic variation in the gene CACNA1C, which codes for the alpha-1c 
subunit of Cav1.2 L-type calcium channels (LTCCs), has been broadly associated 
with enhanced risk for neuropsychiatric disorders including major depression, 
bipolar and schizophrenia. Little is known about the specific neural circuits 
through which CACNA1C and Cav1.2 LTCCs impact disease etiology. However, 
serotonin (5-HT) neurotransmission has been consistently implicated in these 
neuropsychiatric disorders and Cav1.2 LTCCs may influence 5-HT neuron activity 
during relevant behavioral states such as stress. We utilized a temporally 
controlled and 5-HT neuron specific Cacna1c knockout mouse model to assess 
stress-coping behavior using the forced swim test and dorsal raphe (DR) 5-HT 
neuron Fos activation. Furthermore, we assessed 5-HT1A receptor function and 
feedback inhibition of the DR following administration of the 5-HT1A antagonist 
WAY-100635. We find that 5-HT neuron Cacna1c knockout disrupts active-coping 
behavior in the forced swim test and that this behavioral effect is rescued by 
blocking 5-HT1A receptors. Moreover, Cacna1c knockout mice display enhanced Fos 
expression in caudal DR 5-HT neurons and an enhanced response to a 5-HT1A 
receptor antagonist in rostral DR 5-HT neurons, indicating that loss of Cacna1c 
disrupts both 5-HT neuron activation and 5-HT1A dependent feedback inhibition 
across the caudal to rostral DR. Collectively, these results reveal an important 
role for 5-HT neuron Cav1.2 LTCCs in stress-coping behavior and 5-HT1A receptor 
function. This suggests that alterations in CACNA1C function or expression could 
influence the development or treatment of neuropsychiatric disorder through 
serotonergic mechanisms.

Copyright © 2018 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.neuropharm.2018.08.033
PMCID: PMC7476513
PMID: 30176250 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


387. Neuropsychopharmacol Rep. 2018 Sep;38(3):133-144. doi: 10.1002/npr2.12019.
Epub  2018 Aug 11.

Comprehensive behavioral analysis of indoleamine 2,3-dioxygenase knockout mice.

Hirata N(1), Hattori S(1), Shoji H(1), Funakoshi H(2), Miyakawa T(1)(3)(4).

Author information:
(1)Division of Systems Medical Science, Institute for Comprehensive Medical 
Science, Fujita Health University, Toyoake, Japan.
(2)Department of Advanced Medical Science, Asahikawa Medical University, 
Asahikawa, Japan.
(3)Genetic Engineering and Functional Genomics Group, Graduate School of 
Medicine, Frontier Technology Center, Kyoto University, Kyoto, Japan.
(4)Center for Genetic Analysis of Behavior, National Institute for Physiological 
Sciences, Okazaki, Japan.

AIM: Indoleamine 2,3-dioxygenase 1 (IDO1) metabolizes the essential amino acid 
tryptophan into kynurenine derivatives, which are involved in neural activity 
via the kynurenine pathway (KP). IDO1 is an initial rate-limiting enzyme in the 
KP and is activated by stress and/or inflammation. The perturbation of IDO1 
activity, which causes KP imbalance, is associated with psychiatric and 
neurological disorders. It has been reported that wild-type (WT) mice under 
inflammatory conditions show increased anxiety-like behavior and decreased novel 
object recognition, whereas Ido1 knockout (KO) mice do not display these 
behaviors. However, the behavioral phenotypes of Ido1 KO mice have not yet been 
fully examined under non-inflammatory conditions.
METHODS: We subjected Ido1 KO mice to a comprehensive behavioral test battery 
under normal conditions.
RESULTS: Ido1 KO mice and WT mice showed similar locomotor activity, 
anxiety-like behavior, social behavior, depression-like behavior, and fear 
memory. In the T-maze test, Ido1 KO mice exhibited weak but nominally 
significant impairment in the working memory task of the T-maze, but this result 
failed to reach study-wide significance.
CONCLUSIONS: Ido1 KO mice did not show any clear behavioral abnormalities under 
normal conditions. Further studies may be necessary to investigate their 
behavioral phenotype under inflammatory conditions due to their known roles in 
inflammation.

© 2018 The Authors. Neuropsychopharmacology Reports published by John Wiley & 
Sons Australia, Ltd on behalf of The Japanese Society of 
Neuropsychopharmacology.

DOI: 10.1002/npr2.12019
PMCID: PMC7292290
PMID: 30175526 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that the research was 
conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial relationships that could 
be construed as potential conflicts of interest.


388. J Pharmacopuncture. 2017 Dec;20(4):257-264. doi: 10.3831/KPI.2017.20.031.
Epub  2017 Sep 25.

Scolopendra Pharmacopuncture Ameliorates Behavioral Despair in Mice Stressed by 
Chronic Restraint.

Choi YJ(1)(2), Lee HY(2)(3), Kim Y(1)(2), Cho SH(2)(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Clinical Korean Medicine, Graduate School, Kyung Hee 
University, Seoul, Korea.
(2)Department of Neuropsychiatry, College of Korean Medicine, Kyung Hee 
University, Seoul, Korea.
(3)Research Group of Neuroscience, East-West Medical Research Institute, WHO 
Collaborating Center, Kyung Hee University, Seoul, Korea.

INTRODUCTION: Pharmacopuncture, which combines acupuncture with herbal medicine, 
is one of the newly developed acupuncture techniques that has recently been put 
into use. The possible mechanisms of scolopendra pharmacopuncture, as well as 
its potential effects on depressive symptoms, were investigated in this study by 
using a mouse model of chronic immobilization stress (CIS).
METHODS: C57BL/6 male mice were randomly assigned into three groups: mice not 
stressed with restraint and injected with distilled water, mice stressed with 
restraint and injected with distilled water, and mice stressed with restraint 
injected with scolopendra pharmacopuncture at a cervical site. Behavioral tests 
(an open field test, tail suspension test, and forced swimming test) were 
carried out after two weeks of CIS and injection treatments. The expression 
levels of glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP) in the hippocampus were 
determined by using western blot and immunohistochemistry analyses.
RESULTS: Mice exposed to CIS showed decreased behavioral activity, while 
scolopendra pharmacopuncture treatment significantly protected against the 
depressive-like behaviors induced by CIS. Moreover, scolopendra pharmacopuncture 
treatment increased GFAP protein levels in the hippocampi of the mice stressed 
by chronic immobilization.
CONCLUSION: Scolopendra pharmacopuncture has an ameliorating effect on 
depressive behavior, which is partially mediated through protection against 
glial loss in the hippocampus.

DOI: 10.3831/KPI.2017.20.031
PMCID: PMC6104719
PMID: 30151295

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of interest All authors declared that 
they have no conflicts of interests.


389. Behav Brain Res. 2019 Jan 1;356:120-126. doi: 10.1016/j.bbr.2018.08.019.
Epub  2018 Aug 22.

Nociceptin/orphanin FQ receptor agonists increase aggressiveness in the mouse 
resident-intruder test.

Silva EF(1), Silva AI(1), Asth L(1), Souza LS(1), Zaveri NT(2), Guerrini R(3), 
Calo' G(4), Ruzza C(4), Gavioli EC(5).

Author information:
(1)Behavioral Pharmacology Laboratory, Department of Biophysics and 
Pharmacology, Federal University of Rio Grande do Norte, Natal, Brazil.
(2)Astraea Therapeutics, LLC., 320 Logue Avenue, Mountain View, CA, 94043, 
United States.
(3)Department of Chemistry and Pharmaceutical Sciences, University of Ferrara, 
Ferrara, Italy.
(4)Department of Medical Sciences, Section of Pharmacology, and National 
Institute of Neuroscience, University of Ferrara, Ferrara, Italy.
(5)Behavioral Pharmacology Laboratory, Department of Biophysics and 
Pharmacology, Federal University of Rio Grande do Norte, Natal, Brazil. 
Electronic address: egavioli@hotmail.com.

Aggressive behaviors can be considered symptoms of bipolar disorder, 
schizophrenia, post-traumatic stress, intermittent explosive, and personality 
disorders. Nociceptin/orphanin FQ (N/OFQ) is a peptide acting as endogenous 
ligand of the NOP receptor. Preclinical and clinical findings suggest the NOP 
receptor as an innovative target for the treatment of psychopathologies, such as 
anxiety, depression, and drug abuse. This study investigated the effects of NOP 
ligands and the behavioral phenotype of mice lacking the NOP receptor in an 
animal model of aggressiveness, the resident-intruder test. Mood stabilizers, 
such as valproate, lithium, and carbamazepine reduced aggressive behaviors of 
resident mice, while diazepam was inactive. In contrast, 
para-chlorophenylalanine (PCPA), an inhibitor of 5-HT synthesis, increased 
aggressiveness in mice. Similar to PCPA, the treatment with the NOP agonists Ro 
65-6570 and AT-090 also increased aggressive behaviors. The systemic 
administration of the NOP antagonist SB-612111 did not modify the behavior of 
resident mice, but it prevented the aggressive behavior of Ro 65-6570. NOP 
receptor knockout mice did not display any behavioral difference compared to 
wild-type animals in the resident-intruder test. None of the treatments affected 
non-agonistic behaviors and spontaneous locomotion. In conclusion, NOP receptor 
agonists increased aggressiveness, while the pharmacological and genetic 
blockade of NOP receptor signaling did not modify agonistic behaviors. 
Ultimately, the aggressive profile of action of NOP agonists should be taken 
into account in the development of innovative psychiatric drugs targeting the 
NOP receptor.

Copyright © 2018 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.bbr.2018.08.019
PMID: 30142397 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


390. Neurochem Int. 2018 Nov;120:112-120. doi: 10.1016/j.neuint.2018.08.006. Epub
 2018 Aug 13.

α-(phenylselanyl) acetophenone abolishes acute restraint stress induced-comorbid 
pain, depression and anxiety-related behaviors in mice.

Sousa FSS(1), Birmann PT(2), Balaguez R(3), Alves D(4), Brüning CA(5), Savegnago 
L(6).

Author information:
(1)Programa de Pós-Graduação em Bioquímica e Bioprospecção (PPGBBio), Grupo de 
Pesquisa em Neurobiotecnologia - GPN, Universidade Federal de Pelotas, UFPel, 
96010-900, Pelotas, RS, Brazil.
(2)Programa de Pós-Graduação em Biotecnologia (PPGB), Grupo de Pesquisa em 
Neurobiotecnologia- GPN, Biotecnologia/Centro de Desenvolvimento Tecnológico, 
Universidade Federal de Pelotas, Pelotas, RS, Brazil.
(3)Programa de Pós-Graduação em Química (PPGQ), Laboratório de Síntese Orgânica 
Limpa- LASOL, Centro de Ciências Químicas, Farmacêuticas e de Alimentos, 
Universidade Federal de Pelotas, UFPel, Pelotas, RS, Brazil.
(4)Programa de Pós-Graduação em Química (PPGQ), Laboratório de Síntese Orgânica 
Limpa- LASOL, Centro de Ciências Químicas, Farmacêuticas e de Alimentos, 
Universidade Federal de Pelotas, UFPel, Pelotas, RS, Brazil; Programa de 
Pós-Graduação em Biotecnologia (PPGB), Grupo de Pesquisa em Neurobiotecnologia- 
GPN, Biotecnologia/Centro de Desenvolvimento Tecnológico, Universidade Federal 
de Pelotas, Pelotas, RS, Brazil.
(5)Programa de Pós-Graduação em Bioquímica e Bioprospecção (PPGBBio), Grupo de 
Pesquisa em Neurobiotecnologia - GPN, Universidade Federal de Pelotas, UFPel, 
96010-900, Pelotas, RS, Brazil. Electronic address: cabruning@yahoo.com.br.
(6)Programa de Pós-Graduação em Bioquímica e Bioprospecção (PPGBBio), Grupo de 
Pesquisa em Neurobiotecnologia - GPN, Universidade Federal de Pelotas, UFPel, 
96010-900, Pelotas, RS, Brazil; Programa de Pós-Graduação em Biotecnologia 
(PPGB), Grupo de Pesquisa em Neurobiotecnologia- GPN, Biotecnologia/Centro de 
Desenvolvimento Tecnológico, Universidade Federal de Pelotas, Pelotas, RS, 
Brazil. Electronic address: luciellisavegnago@yahoo.com.br.

α-(phenylselanyl) acetophenone (PSAP) is an organoselenium compound that 
presents antidepressive-like and antinociceptive effect in animal models. In 
this study, we evaluate the potential pharmacological effects of PSAP on acute 
stress restriction (ARS)-induced depressive and anxiogenic-like behavior 
associated with hyperalgesia and mechanical allodynia in male adult Swiss mice 
(25-35 g). The ARS is an unavoidable stress situation that was applied for a 
period of 4 h using an individual rodent restraint. Ten min after ARS, the 
animals were treated with the PSAP (10 mg/kg, intragastrically [IG]) or 
imipramine (IMI, 10 mg/kg, IG) and after thirty min they were submitted to the 
behavioral observations in the forced swimming test (FST), sucrose preference 
test, hot plate, Von-Frey Hair filaments (VHF), marble burying test and elevated 
plus maze (EPM). It was also evaluated the levels of plasma corticosterone and 
some parameters of oxidative stress in cortex and hippocampus. The ARS caused a 
decrease in the latency to the first episode of immobility in the FST, the 
sucrose preference, latency time in the hot plate test, frequency of paw 
withdrawal in the VFH and time spent in the open arms of the EPM. ARS also 
increased the immobility time of mice in the FST, the number of marbles buried 
and enclosed entries number in the EPM. PSAP or IMI reversed all these 
parameters. ARS increased the levels of lipid peroxidation, reactive species 
(RS) and nitrite and nitrate (NOx) levels in cortex and hippocampus and the 
treatment with PSAP or IMI also reduced these parameters, demonstrating its 
effect on the reduction of oxidative stress. In addition, ARS also caused an 
increase in plasma corticosterone levels and PSAP treatment reversed this 
effect. Hence, PSAP exhibited antidepressant-like, anxiolytic-like, 
anti-hyperalgesic and anti-allodynic effect in the ARS model and could be a 
promising molecule to treat these comorbidities.

Copyright © 2018. Published by Elsevier Ltd.

DOI: 10.1016/j.neuint.2018.08.006
PMID: 30114472 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


391. Neuropsychopharmacol Rep. 2018 Jun;38(2):52-60. doi: 10.1002/npr2.12006.
Epub  2018 Mar 15.

Comprehensive behavioral analysis of tryptophan 2,3-dioxygenase (Tdo2) knockout 
mice.

Hattori S(1), Takao K(2)(3), Funakoshi H(4), Miyakawa T(1)(3).

Author information:
(1)Division of Systems Medical Science, Institute for Comprehensive Medical 
Science, Fujita Health University, Toyoake, Aichi, Japan.
(2)Division of Animal Resources and Development, Life Science Research Center, 
University of Toyama, Toyama, Japan.
(3)Genetic Engineering and Functional Genomics Group, Frontier Technology 
Center, Graduate School of Medicine, Kyoto University, Kyoto, Japan.
(4)Center for Advanced Research and Education, Asahikawa Medical University, 
Asahikawa, Japan.

AIMS: Tryptophan 2,3-dioxygenase (TDO2) is an initial rate-limiting enzyme of 
the kynurenine (Kyn) pathway in tryptophan (Trp) metabolism. The Trp-degrading 
enzymes, TDO2 and indoleamine 2,3-dioxygenase, are activated by stress and/or 
inflammation. Dysregulation of Trp metabolism, which causes shifts in the 
balance between Kyn and serotonin (5-HT) pathways, is associated with 
psychiatric and neurological disorders. In genetic studies, single-nucleotide 
polymorphisms in the TDO2 gene were shown to be involved in psychiatric 
disorders, such as schizophrenia and depression. It has been reported that 
targeted deletion of the Tdo2 gene in mice resulted in reduced anxiety-like 
behavior, enhanced exploratory activity and cognitive performance, and increased 
levels of Trp and 5-HT in the hippocampus and midbrain. However, the effect of 
Tdo2 gene deletion on behavioral phenotypes has not yet been investigated 
extensively.
MATERIALS & METHODS: We conducted tests to further examine the behavioral 
effects of knockout (KO) of Tdo2 in mice.
RESULTS: Deletion of Tdo2 resulted in seemingly lower anxiety-like behavior, 
higher locomotor activity, and abnormal gait pattern in mice, though none of 
them reached study-wide statistical significance. Tdo2 deficiency had no 
significant effects on other behaviors, such as prepulse inhibition, and 
depression-like and social behaviors.
DISCUSSION AND CONCLUSION: He lack of clear phenotypes in Tdo2KO mice in this 
study might be due to the absence of stress and inflammatory conditions, which 
could induce expression of Tdo2 mRNA. Further studies are necessary to elucidate 
the roles of Tdo2 in behavioral phenotypes related to psychiatric disorders.

© 2018 The Authors. Neuropsychopharmacology Reports published by John Wiley & 
Sons Australia, Ltd on behalf of The Japanese Society of 
Neuropsychopharmacology.

DOI: 10.1002/npr2.12006
PMCID: PMC7292271
PMID: 30106261 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Dr. Tsuyoshi Miyakawa received research grants 
from Astellas Pharma Inc. Other authors have no conflict of interests to 
declare.


392. Biomed Pharmacother. 2018 Nov;107:262-269. doi:
10.1016/j.biopha.2018.07.148.  Epub 2018 Aug 8.

Oxytocin improves animal behaviors and ameliorates oxidative stress and 
inflammation in autistic mice.

Wang Y(1), Zhao S(2), Liu X(2), Zheng Y(2), Li L(2), Meng S(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology, The First Affiliated Hospital of China Medical 
University, Shenyang 110001, People's Republic of China. Electronic address: 
88446486@163.com.
(2)Department of Neurology, The First Affiliated Hospital of China Medical 
University, Shenyang 110001, People's Republic of China.

OBJECTIVE: Autism is a neurodevelopmental disorder which significantly impacts 
the quality of people's life. Oxytocin is a hormone impacting the social 
cognition and interpersonal trust. In this study, we aimed to explore the role 
of oxytocin in autism.
METHODS: Autistic mice models were established by valproate. Animal behaviors 
were assessed by open field test, tail suspension test, marble burying test and 
three-chamber social interaction test. Oxidative stress was evaluated by the 
levels or activities of malondialdehyde, superoxide dismutase, glutathion 
peroxidase, reduced glutathione and reactive oxygen species. Inflammation was 
assessed by the levels of tumor necrosis factor-α, interleukin-1β and 
interleukin-6. The number of activated microglia was detected by 
immunofluorescence with an Iba-1 antibody.
RESULTS: Our results showed that oxytocin improved the behaviors of autistic 
mice, with less anxiety, depression and repetitive behavior, and ameliorated 
social interaction. Further study showed that the elevated oxidative stress and 
inflammation in autistic mice were alleviated after treatment of oxytocin.
CONCLUSION: Our study demonstrates that oxytocin treatment ameliorates autism in 
a mouse model, maybe through its modulation on oxidative stress and 
inflammation. It is indicated that oxytocin may beneficial to autism.

Copyright © 2018 Elsevier Masson SAS. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.biopha.2018.07.148
PMID: 30098544 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


393. Front Pharmacol. 2018 Jul 19;9:767. doi: 10.3389/fphar.2018.00767.
eCollection  2018.

Centrally Administered Cortistation-14 Induces Antidepressant-Like Effects in 
Mice via Mediating Ghrelin and GABA(A) Receptor Signaling Pathway.

Jiang J(1), Peng Y(1), Liang X(1), Li S(1), Chang X(1), Li L(1), Chang M(1).

Author information:
(1)Key Laboratory of Preclinical Study for New Drugs of Gansu Province, School 
of Life Sciences, Institute of Biochemistry and Molecular Biology, Lanzhou 
University, Lanzhou, China.

Cortistatin-14 (CST-14), a recently discovered cyclic neuropeptide, can bind to 
all five cloned somatostatin receptors (SSTRs) and ghrelin receptor to exert its 
biological activities and co-exists with GABA within the cortex and hippocampus. 
However, the role of CST-14 in the control of depression processes is not still 
clarified. Here, we tested the behavioral effects of CST-14 in the in a variety 
of classical rodent models of depression [forced swimming test (FST), tail 
suspension test (TST) and novelty-suppressed feeding test]. In the models of 
depression, CST-14 produced antidepressant-like effects, and does not altered 
locomotor activity levels. And, we found that CST-14 mRNA and BDNF mRNA were 
significantly decreased in the hippocampus and cortex after mice exposed to 
stress. Further data show that i.c.v. administration of CST-14 produce rapid 
antidepressant effects, and does not altered locomotor activity levels. Then 
these antidepressant-like effects were significantly reversed by [D-Lys3]GHRP-6 
(ghrelin receptor antagonist), but not c-SOM (SSTRs antagonist). Meanwhile, the 
effects of some neurotransmitter blockers indicates that only GABAA system, but 
not CRF1 receptor, α/β-adrenergic receptor, is involved in the antidepressant 
effect of CST-14. The effects of the mTOR inhibitor (rapamycin), the PI3K 
inhibitor (LY294002) and the p-ERK1/2 inhibitor (U0126) suggesting that the 
ERK/mTOR or PI3K/Akt/mTOR signaling pathway is not involved in the 
antidepressant effects of CST-14. Interestingly, intranasal administration of 
CST-14 led to reducing depressive-like behavior, and near-infrared fluorescent 
experiments showed the real-time in vivo bio-distribution in brain after 
intranasal infusion of Cy7.5-CST-14. Taken all together, the results of present 
study point to a role for CST-14 in the modulation of depression processes via 
the ghrelin and GABAA receptor, and suggest cortistation may represent a novel 
strategy for the treatment of depression disorders. Highlights: -CST-14 and BDNF 
mRNA are decreased in hippocampus and cortex once mice exposed to stress.-i.c.v. 
or intranasal administration of CST-14 produce rapid antidepressant effects.-NIR 
fluorescence imaging detected the brain uptake and distribution after intranasal 
CST-14.-Antidepressant effects of CST-14 were only related to ghrelin and GABAA 
system.-Co-injection of CST-14 and NPS produce antidepressant effect, and do not 
impair memory.

DOI: 10.3389/fphar.2018.00767
PMCID: PMC6060333
PMID: 30072893


394. Front Neurosci. 2018 Jul 19;12:486. doi: 10.3389/fnins.2018.00486.
eCollection  2018.

Selanylimidazopyridine Prevents Lipopolysaccharide-Induced Depressive-Like 
Behavior in Mice by Targeting Neurotrophins and Inflammatory/Oxidative 
Mediators.

Domingues M(1), Casaril AM(1), Birmann PT(1), Lourenço DA(1), Vieira B(2), 
Begnini K(3), Lenardão EJ(2), Collares T(3), Seixas FK(3), Savegnago L(1).

Author information:
(1)Programa de Pós-Graduação em Biotecnologia, Grupo de Pesquisa em 
Neurobiotecnologia, Biotecnologia/Centro de Desenvolvimento Tecnológico, 
Universidade Federal de Pelotas, Pelotas, Brazil.
(2)Programa de Pós-Graduação em Química, Laboratório de Síntese Orgânica Limpa, 
Química/Centro de Ciências Químicas, Farmacêuticas e de Alimentos, Universidade 
Federal de Pelotas, Pelotas, Brazil.
(3)Programa de Pós-Graduação em Biotecnologia, Grupo de Pesquisa em Oncologia 
Celular e Molecular, Laboratório de Biotecnologia do Cancer, 
Biotecnologia/Centro de Desenvolvimento Tecnológico, Universidade Federal de 
Pelotas, Pelotas, Brazil.

Inasmuch, as the major depressive disorder (MDD) has been characterized as a 
heterogeneous disease as the inflammatory processes, neurotrophic factors' 
dysfunction and oxidative/nitrosative stress are believed to play a vital role 
in its establishment. Organoselenium compounds stand out due to their 
antioxidant, anti-inflammatory, neuroprotective, and antidepressant effects. In 
this sense, the present study investigated the effect of 
3-((4-methoxyphenyl)selanyl)-2-phenylimidazo[1,2-a]pyridine (MPI; 20 and 50 
mg/kg, intragastrically) pretreatment [30 min prior lipopolysaccharide (LPS) 
challenge (0.83 mg/kg)] on acute LPS induced depressive-like behavior, 
neuroinflammation, and oxidative stress. MPI was able to prevent the increased 
immobility time induced by LPS on the forced swimming test (FST), the increase 
in pro-inflammatory cytokines' expression in the hippocampus (HC) of mice after 
LPS challenge via NFkB downregulation, and the increase of the reactive oxygen 
species generation and lipid peroxidation in the prefrontal cortex and HC of 
mice. It was observed that at the doses tested, MPI protected against reducing 
levels of BDNF in the cortex and HC of mice challenged with LPS. These 
observations suggest that the antidepressant-like effect of MPI depends on its 
capacity to modulate the inflammatory, antioxidant, and neurotrophic systems.

DOI: 10.3389/fnins.2018.00486
PMCID: PMC6060445
PMID: 30072867


395. Biol Psychiatry. 2019 Feb 1;85(3):189-201. doi:
10.1016/j.biopsych.2018.06.019.  Epub 2018 Jul 5.

Chronic Stress Remodels Synapses in an Amygdala Circuit-Specific Manner.

Zhang JY(1), Liu TH(2), He Y(2), Pan HQ(2), Zhang WH(2), Yin XP(3), Tian XL(4), 
Li BM(2), Wang XD(5), Holmes A(6), Yuan TF(7), Pan BX(8).

Author information:
(1)Laboratory of Fear and Anxiety Disorders, Institute of Life Science, Nanchang 
University, Nanchang, China; Department of Neurology, the 2nd Affiliated 
Hospital, Nanchang University, Nanchang, China.
(2)Laboratory of Fear and Anxiety Disorders, Institute of Life Science, Nanchang 
University, Nanchang, China.
(3)Department of Neurology, the 2nd Affiliated Hospital, Nanchang University, 
Nanchang, China.
(4)Human Aging Research Institute, School of Life Science, Nanchang University, 
Nanchang, China.
(5)Department of Neurobiology, Key Laboratory of Medical Neurobiology of 
Ministry of Health of China and Zhejiang Provincial Key Laboratory of 
Neurobiology, Zhejiang University School of Medicine, Hangzhou, China.
(6)Laboratory of Behavioral and Genomic Neuroscience, National Institute on 
Alcohol Abuse and Alcoholism, National Institutes of Health, Bethesda, Maryland.
(7)Shanghai Mental Health Center, Shanghai Jiaotong University School of 
Medicine, Shanghai, China.
(8)Laboratory of Fear and Anxiety Disorders, Institute of Life Science, Nanchang 
University, Nanchang, China; Department of Neurology, the 2nd Affiliated 
Hospital, Nanchang University, Nanchang, China; Human Aging Research Institute, 
School of Life Science, Nanchang University, Nanchang, China. Electronic 
address: panbingxing@ncu.edu.cn.

Comment in
    Biol Psychiatry. 2019 Feb 1;85(3):e7-e9.

BACKGROUND: Chronic stress exposure increases the risk of developing various 
neuropsychiatric illnesses. The behavioral sequelae of stress correlate with 
dendritic hypertrophy and glutamate-related synaptic remodeling at basolateral 
amygdala projection neurons (BLA PNs). Yet, though BLA PNs are functionally 
heterogeneous with diverse corticolimbic targets, it remains unclear whether 
stress differentially impacts specific output circuits.
METHODS: Confocal imaging was used to reconstruct the morphology of mouse BLA 
PNs with the aid of retrograde tracing and biocytin staining. The synaptic 
activity in these neurons was measured with in vitro electrophysiology, and 
anxiety-like behavior of the mice was assessed with the elevated plus maze and 
open field test.
RESULTS: Chronic restraint stress (CRS) produced dendritic hypertrophy across 
mouse BLA PNs, regardless of whether they did (BLA→dorsomedial prefrontal cortex 
[dmPFC]) or did not (BLA↛dmPFC) target dmPFC. However, CRS increased the size of 
dendritic spine heads and the number of mature, mushroom-shaped spines only in 
BLA↛dmPFC PNs, sparing neighboring BLA→dmPFC PNs. Moreover, the excitatory 
glutamatergic transmission was also selectively increased in BLA↛dmPFC PNs, and 
this effect correlated with CRS-induced increases in anxiety-like behavior. 
Segregating BLA↛dmPFC PNs based on their targeting of ventral hippocampus 
(BLA→ventral hippocampus) or nucleus accumbens (BLA→nucleus accumbens) revealed 
that CRS increased spine density and glutamatergic signaling in BLA→ventral 
hippocampus PNs in a manner that correlated with anxiety-like behavior.
CONCLUSIONS: Chronic stress caused BLA PN neuronal remodeling with a previously 
unrecognized degree of circuit specificity, offering new insight into the 
pathophysiological basis of depression, anxiety disorders, and other 
stress-related conditions.

Copyright © 2018 Society of Biological Psychiatry. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.biopsych.2018.06.019
PMCID: PMC6747699
PMID: 30060908 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


396. Physiol Res. 2018 Nov 14;67(5):795-808. doi: 10.33549/physiolres.933776.
Epub  2018 Jul 25.

Quercetin protects against stress-induced anxiety- and depression-like behavior 
and improves memory in male mice.

Samad N(1), Saleem A, Yasmin F, Shehzad MA.

Author information:
(1)Department of Biochemistry, Bahauddin Zakariya University, Multan, Pakistan. 
noreen.samad@bzu.edu.pk.

The present study evaluates the protective role of Quercetin (Quer), against 
immobilization stress- induced anxiety, depression and cognition alteration in 
mice using behavioral and biochemical parameters. 24 adult Albino mice were 
distributed into 2 groups vehicle (n=12; 1 ml/kg) and Quer injected (n=12; 20 
mg/kg/ml). The animals received their respective treatment for 14 days. On day 
15, after the drug administration, animals were sub-divided into 4 groups (n=6); 
(i) unstressed + vehicle; (ii) stressed + vehicle; (iii) unstressed + Quer; (iv) 
stressed + Quer. On day 16, 24 h after the immobilization stress behavioral 
activities (light-dark activity, elevated plus maze, Morris water maze, and 
forced swim test) monitored and then animals were decapitated 1 h after the drug 
administration. Brain samples were collected for biochemical (antioxidant 
enzymes, AChE, ACh, 5-HT and its metabolite) analysis. The present study 
indicates the Quer reversed the stress-induced anxiety and depression, in 
addition, memory performance was more enhanced in stressed group. Following the 
treatment of Quer, stress-induced elevation of lipid peroxidation and 
suppression of antioxidant enzymes were also reversed. Administration of Quer 
decreased AChE in unstressed, while levels of acetylcholine were increased in 
vehicle and Quer treated stressed animals. The metabolism of 5-HT was increased 
in Quer treated stressed than unstressed animals. In conclusion, the present 
finding showed that Quer could prevent the impairment of antioxidant enzymes and 
also regulate the serotonergic and cholinergic neurotransmission and produce 
antianxiety, antidepressant effect and enhance memory following 2 h 
immobilization stress in mice.

DOI: 10.33549/physiolres.933776
PMID: 30044120 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


397. Neurochem Int. 2018 Nov;120:33-42. doi: 10.1016/j.neuint.2018.07.007. Epub
2018  Jul 21.

Riparin II ameliorates corticosterone-induced depressive-like behavior in mice: 
Role of antioxidant and neurotrophic mechanisms.

Lopes IS(1), Oliveira ICM(1), Capibaribe VCC(1), Valentim JT(1), da Silva 
DMA(1), de Souza AG(1), de Araújo MA(1), Chaves RC(1), Gutierrez SJC(2), Barbosa 
Filho JM(3), Macêdo DS(1), de Sousa FCF(4).

Author information:
(1)Neuropsychopharmacology Laboratory, Drug Research and Development Center, 
Faculty of Medicine, Federal University of Ceará, Coronel Nunes de Melo 1000, 
CEP 60.431-270, Fortaleza, Ceará, Brazil; Department of Physiology and 
Pharmacology, Faculty of Medicine, Federal University of Ceara, Coronel Nunes de 
Melo 1127, CEP 60.430-270, Fortaleza, Ceará, Brazil.
(2)Pharmaceutical Sciences Department, Federal University of Piauí, Teresina, 
Piauí, Brazil.
(3)Laboratory of Pharmaceutics Technology, Federal University of Paraiba, Joao 
Pessoa, Paraiba, Brazil.
(4)Neuropsychopharmacology Laboratory, Drug Research and Development Center, 
Faculty of Medicine, Federal University of Ceará, Coronel Nunes de Melo 1000, 
CEP 60.431-270, Fortaleza, Ceará, Brazil; Department of Physiology and 
Pharmacology, Faculty of Medicine, Federal University of Ceara, Coronel Nunes de 
Melo 1127, CEP 60.430-270, Fortaleza, Ceará, Brazil. Electronic address: 
clea@ufc.br.

Riparin II (RIP II) is an alkamide isolated from Aniba riparia that has 
presented antidepressant and anxiolytic effects in acute stress behavioral 
models. This study aimed to investigate the activity of RIP II in a 
corticosterone-induced depression mice model. Corticosterone (20 mg/kg, s.c.) 
was administered once a day for 21 days. RIP II (50 mg/kg, p.o.) or fluvoxamine 
(FLU, 50 mg/kg, standard antidepressant, p.o.) was administered after 
corticosterone (CORT) injection, for the last 7 days of CORT treatment. Mice 
were exposed to the following behavioral tests: forced swimming, tail 
suspension, open field, sucrose preference, elevated plus maze and ymaze. After 
behavioral evaluation, brain areas (prefrontal cortex, hippocampus and striatum) 
were dissected for neurochemical evaluation: oxidative stress parameters (MDA, 
nitrite and GSH) and BDNF dosage. Repeated CORT administration caused 
depressive-like behavior in mice as indicated by increased despair effects in 
forced swimming and tail suspension tests and anhedonia in sucrose preference 
test. In addition, CORT decreased BDNF levels in the mice hippocampus and 
induced oxidative load in the brain with significative increase in pro-oxidant 
markers (lipid peroxidation and nitrite levels) and a decline in anti-oxidant 
defense system (reduced glutathione levels), indicating a direct effect of 
stress hormones in the induction of the brain oxidative stress. On the other 
hand, RIP II treatment reversed CORT-induced depressive-like behavior. 
Furthermore, this treatment reversed the impairment in BDNF levels and oxidative 
brain insults caused by CORT. This may demonstrate the mechanisms involved in 
antidepressant-like effect of RIP II. These findings further support that RIP II 
may be implicated as pharmacological intervention targeting depression 
associated with HPA-axis dysregulation.

Copyright © 2018 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.neuint.2018.07.007
PMID: 30041016 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


398. Front Pharmacol. 2018 Jul 9;9:604. doi: 10.3389/fphar.2018.00604.
eCollection  2018.

Vaccinium bracteatum Leaf Extract Reverses Chronic Restraint Stress-Induced 
Depression-Like Behavior in Mice: Regulation of Hypothalamic-Pituitary-Adrenal 
Axis, Serotonin Turnover Systems, and ERK/Akt Phosphorylation.

Oh DR(1)(2), Yoo JS(3), Kim Y(1), Kang H(1), Lee H(1), Lm SJ(1), Choi EJ(1), 
Jung MA(1), Bae D(1), Oh KN(1), Hong JA(1), Jo A(1), Shin J(1), Kim J(1), Kim 
YR(2), Cho SS(4), Lee BJ(3), Choi CY(1).

Author information:
(1)Jeonnam Bioindustry Foundation, Jeonnam Institute of Natural Resources 
Research, Jeollanamdo, South Korea.
(2)College of Pharmacy and Research Institute of Drug Development, Chonnam 
National University, Gwangju, South Korea.
(3)Bioavailability Control Laboratory, College of Pharmacy, Ajou University, 
Suwon, South Korea.
(4)Department of Pharmacy, College of Pharmacy, Mokpo National University, Muan, 
South Korea.

The leaves of Vaccinium bracteatum Thunb. are a source of traditional herbal 
medicines found in East Asia. The present study aimed to evaluate the mechanisms 
underlying the antidepressant-like effects of water extract of V. bracteatum 
Thunb. leaves (VBLW) in a mouse model of chronic restraint stress (CRS) and to 
identify the possible molecular in vitro mechanisms of the neuroprotective 
effects. The CRS-exposed mice were orally administered VBLW (100 and 200 mg/kg) 
daily for 21 days consecutively. The behavioral effects of VBLW were assessed 
through the forced swim test (FST) and the open field test (OFT). The levels of 
serum corticosterone (CORT), corticotropin releasing hormone (CRH), and 
adrenocorticotropin hormone (ACTH), brain monoamines, such as serotonin, 
dopamine, and norepinephrine, and serotonin turnover by tryptophan hydroxylase 2 
(TPH2), serotonin reuptake (SERT), and monoamine oxidase A (MAO-A) were 
evaluated, in addition to the extracellular signal-regulated kinases 
(ERKs)/protein kinase B (Akt) signaling pathway. CRS-exposed mice treated with 
VBLW (100 and 200 mg/kg) showed significantly reduced immobility time and 
increased swimming and climbing times in the FST, and increased locomotor 
activity in the OFT. Moreover, CRS mice treated with VBLW exhibited 
significantly decreased CORT and ACTH, but enhanced brain monoamine 
neurotransmitters. In addition, CRS mice treated with VBLW had dramatically 
decreased protein levels of MAO-A and SERT, but increased TPH2 protein levels in 
the hippocampus and the PFC. Similarly, VBLW significantly upregulated the 
ERKs/Akt signaling pathway in the hippocampus and the PFC. Furthermore, VBLW 
showed neuroprotective effects via increased CREB phosphorylation in 
CORT-induced cell injury that were mediated through the ERK/Akt/mTOR signaling 
pathways. These results suggested that the antidepressant-like effects of VBLW 
might be mediated by the regulation of the HPA axis, glucocorticoids, and 
serotonin turnover, such as TPH2, SERT, and MAO-A, as well as the concentration 
of monoamine neurotransmitters, and the activities of ERK and Akt 
phosphorylation, which were possibly associated with neuroprotective effects.

DOI: 10.3389/fphar.2018.00604
PMCID: PMC6047486
PMID: 30038568


399. Mol Neurobiol. 2019 Mar;56(3):2185-2201. doi: 10.1007/s12035-018-1205-7.
Epub  2018 Jul 12.

Absence of Stress Response in Dorsal Raphe Nucleus in Modulator of Apoptosis 
1-Deficient Mice.

Zhao H(1), Mohamed NE(1), Chan SJ(1)(2)(3), Tan CT(4), Tao R(4), Yu VC(4), Wong 
PT(5).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmacology, Yong Loo Lin School of Medicine, National 
University of Singapore, 16, Medical Drive, #04-01, Singapore, 117600, 
Singapore.
(2)Department of Radiology, Massachusetts General Hospital, Harvard Medical 
School, Charlestown, MA, 02129, USA.
(3)Institute of Medical Biology, Glycotherapeutics Group, 8A Biomedical Grove, 
#06-06 Immunos, A*STAR, Singapore, 138648, Singapore.
(4)Department of Pharmacy, Faculty of Science, National University of Singapore, 
Singapore, Singapore.
(5)Department of Pharmacology, Yong Loo Lin School of Medicine, National 
University of Singapore, 16, Medical Drive, #04-01, Singapore, 117600, 
Singapore. phcwth@nus.edu.sg.

Modulator of apoptosis 1 (MOAP-1) is a Bcl-2-associated X Protein 
(BAX)-associating protein that plays an important role in regulating apoptosis. 
It is highly enriched in the brain but its function in this organ remains 
unknown. Studies on BAX-/- mice suggested that disruption of programmed cell 
death may lead to abnormal emotional states. We thus hypothesize that MOAP-1-/- 
mice may also display stress-related behavioral differences and perhaps involved 
in stress responses in the brain and investigated if a depression-like trait 
exists in MOAP-1-/- mice, and if so, whether it is age related, and how it 
relates to central serotonergic stress response in the dorsal raphe nucleus. 
Young MOAP-1-/- mice exhibit depression-like behavior, in the form of increased 
immobility time when compared to age-matched wild-type mice in the forced 
swimming test, which is abolished by acute treatment of fluoxetine. This is 
supported by data from the tail suspension and sucrose preference tests. 
Repeated forced swimming stress causes an up-regulation of tryptophan 
hydroxylase 2 (TPH2) and a down-regulation of brain-derived neurotrophic factor 
(BDNF) in the dorsal raphe nucleus (DRN) in young wild-type (WT) control mice. 
In contrast, TPH2 up-regulation was not observed in aged WT mice. Interestingly, 
such a stress response appears absent in both young and aged MOAP-1-/- mice. 
Aged MOAP-1-/- and WT mice also have similar immobility times on the forced 
swimming test. These data suggest that MOAP-1 is required in the regulation of 
stress response in the DRN. Crosstalk between BDNF and 5-HT appears to play an 
important role in this stress response.

DOI: 10.1007/s12035-018-1205-7
PMCID: PMC6394635
PMID: 30003515 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: All procedures performed were approved by the 
Institutional Animal Care and Use Committee (IACUC) at the National University 
of Singapore. CONFLICT OF INTEREST: The authors declare that they have no 
conflict of interest.


400. Sci Rep. 2018 Jul 3;8(1):10040. doi: 10.1038/s41598-018-28381-2.

Adolescent social stress increases anxiety-like behavior and ethanol consumption 
in adult male and female C57BL/6J mice.

Caruso MJ(1)(2), Seemiller LR(1)(3), Fetherston TB(1), Miller CN(1), Reiss 
DE(1), Cavigelli SA(1)(3), Kamens HM(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Biobehavioral Health, Pennsylvania State University, University 
Park, PA, 16802, USA.
(2)Department of Systems Pharmacology and Translational Therapeutics, Perelman 
School of Medicine, University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, PA, 19104, USA.
(3)The Huck Institutes for the Life Sciences, Pennsylvania State University, 
University Park, PA, 16802, USA.
(4)Department of Biobehavioral Health, Pennsylvania State University, University 
Park, PA, 16802, USA. hmk123@psu.edu.

Exposure to social stress is an important risk factor for comorbid affective 
disorders and problem alcohol use. To better understand mechanisms involved in 
social stress-induced affective disorder and alcohol use co-morbidity, we 
studied the effects of adolescent social stress on anxiety- and depression-like 
behaviors and binge-like ethanol consumption. Male and female C57BL/6J mice were 
exposed to chronic variable social stress (CVSS) or control conditions 
throughout adolescence (postnatal days, PND, 25-59) and then tested for 
anxiety-like behavior in the elevated plus maze and a novel open field 
environment, or depression-like behavior using the forced swim test on PND 
64-66. Mice were then tested for binge-like ethanol consumption using the 
Drinking-in-the-Dark model. Male and female mice exposed to adolescent CVSS had 
increased adult anxiety-like behavior and increased locomotor adaptation to a 
novel environment. Further, CVSS mice consumed significantly more ethanol, but 
not saccharin, than controls. Despite group differences in both anxiety-like 
behavior and ethanol consumption, there was no relationship between these 
outcomes within individual mice. These data suggest that exposure to adolescent 
social stress is an important risk factor for later alcohol use and affective 
behaviors, but that social stress does not necessarily dictate co-morbidity of 
these outcomes.

DOI: 10.1038/s41598-018-28381-2
PMCID: PMC6030218
PMID: 29968802 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no competing interests.
